# 2022-03-07

*53 news articles*

## [23:36] Wimal calls PM’s statement on fuel crisis foolish

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/breaking_news/Wimal-calls-PMs-statement-on-fuel-crisis-foolish/108-232534](https://www.dailymirror.lk/breaking_news/Wimal-calls-PMs-statement-on-fuel-crisis-foolish/108-232534)

Referring to the statement issued by Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa about the prevailing fuel crisis where the PM had stressed that there was no such crisis, sacked Minister Wimal Weerawansa said it was a foolish statement.



In response to a query posed by a journalist, the former Industries Minister said no one could possibly deny that there is a crisis in the country.



Prime Minister has also stated in the statement that false remarks made by inexperienced politicians, caused panic among people leading to a crisis.



In response, former minister Weerawansa said the prevailing fuel crisis was not due to remarks made in one or two days, it worsened owing to lack of proper planning.



MP Weerawansa also challenged the Government to completely resolve the fuel crisis in the coming days.



Meanwhile, Weerawansa said the main cause for the current catastrophe is the failure in taking pertinent long-term measures at correct time.



"Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa wants crisis to exacerbate in a bid to fulfill the aspirations of West," he added. (Sheain Fernandopulle)

## [22:23] Governors instruct officials to reduce power consumption by 20% in all provinces

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/breaking_news/Governors-instruct-officials-to-reduce-power-consumption-by-20-in-all-provinces/108-232533](https://www.dailymirror.lk/breaking_news/Governors-instruct-officials-to-reduce-power-consumption-by-20-in-all-provinces/108-232533)

The Provincial Governors instructed the officials of the relevant government agencies to reduce the consumption of electricity in public places in all provinces by 20%.

It was announced following a special discussion held today through Zoom Technology over the consumption of electricity in public places in each province.

The discussion was held with the participation of the Governors representing all provinces in the country under the patronage of the Finance Minister.

During the discussion, the Northern Province Governor, Jeevan Thyagarajah, instructed the public officials of the province to expedite the use of renewable energy in all public institutions in the province in the future.

Further, they advised the officials to enhance the potential for renewable power generation in their province. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)

## [22:07] CB devalues the rupee against USD to Rs 230

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/top_story/CB-devalues-the-rupee-against-USD-to-Rs-230/155-232536](https://www.dailymirror.lk/top_story/CB-devalues-the-rupee-against-USD-to-Rs-230/155-232536)

The Central Bank of Sri Lanka has devalued the rupee against the US dollar to Rs.230 with immediate effect, the bank announced a short while ago.

“The Central Bank is of the view that forex transactions would take place at levels which are not more than Rs. 230 per US dollar and will closely monitor developments in domestic forex market,” the bank said in a statement.

The statement as follows:

Policy package to support greater macroeconomic stability:

Allowing flexibility in the exchange rate

Considering the severity of the external shocks and recent developments in the domestic front, the Monetary Board of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka announced a comprehensive policy package on 04 March 2022 with the view to counter such economic headwinds.

The Central Bank also indicated that it will continue to closely monitor the emerging macroeconomic and financial market developments, both globally and domestically, and will stand ready to take further measures as appropriate, with the aim of achieving stability in the fronts of inflation, the external sector, the financial sector, and real economic activity.

In that context, greater flexibility in the exchange rate will be allowed to the markets with immediate effect. The Central Bank is also of the view that forex transactions would take place at levels which are not more than Rs. 230 per US dollar.

The Central Bank will continue to closely monitor the developments in the domestic foreign exchange market and make appropriate policy adjustments accordingly.

## [21:54] Tomorrow’s power cut schedule announced

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/breaking_news/Tomorrows-power-cut-schedule-announced/108-232535](https://www.dailymirror.lk/breaking_news/Tomorrows-power-cut-schedule-announced/108-232535)

The power schedule which was imposed today will be carried out for tomorrow (8) as well, the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka (PUCSL) said.

PUCSL Chairman Janaka Ratnayake said approval for tomorrows power shedding was granted following a request from the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB).

Accordingly, the power shedding will be imposed in the P, Q, R, S, T, U, V and W for two hours from 9am to 5pm and one hour from 5pm to 9pm. Areas E and F will be imposed a five hour power cut from 8am to 6pm and two and half hours from 6pm to 11pm.

The PUCSL regrets the inconvenience cause to electricity consumers due to prevailing power cuts. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)

## [21:50] Largest cement factory declared open...

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/caption_story/Largest-cement-factory-declared-open/110-232563](https://www.dailymirror.lk/caption_story/Largest-cement-factory-declared-open/110-232563)

President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa today (07) inaugurated the cement manufacturing facility of Lanwa Sanstha Cement Corporation (Pvt) Ltd., the largest cement factory in the country, located in the Magampura Lanka Industrial Zone. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana

## [21:01] 10 schools to be elevated as national schools tomorrow

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/10-schools-to-be-elevated-as-national-schools-tomorrow/342-232532](https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/10-schools-to-be-elevated-as-national-schools-tomorrow/342-232532)

In view of increasing the number of national schools in the country to 495, another ten schools are to be announced as national schools tomorrow under the 'Thousand National Schools' programme, the Education Ministry said.

They said the ten schools will be announced as national schools on the occasion of International Women's Day tomorrow under President Gotabaya Rajapaksa's 'Vistas of Prosperity and Splendour" theme.

The occasion will take place tomorrow at Temple Trees through Zoom Technology with the patronage of Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and the Education Minister.

Accordingly, Puwakdandawa Dhammapala Balika Vidyalaya, Beliatta - Yashodara Balika Vidyalaya, Bibile - Devi Balika Maha Vidyalaya, Dompe - Mahmud Ladies School, Kalmunai - Vidyartha School, Kekirawa - Swarna Jayanthi Maha Vidyalaya, Kegalla - St. Gabriels Balika Vidyalaya, Hatton - Methodist Girls' High School, Point Pedro - Buddhist Girls' School - Dankotuwa  and Walahanduwa President's Girls' School will be announced as national schools tomorrow. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)

## [20:14] Sri Lanka’s future is decidedly female: banking on empowered women for economic rejuvenation

[http://island.lk/sri-lankas-future-is-decidedly-female-banking-on-empowered-women-for-economic-rejuvenation/](http://island.lk/sri-lankas-future-is-decidedly-female-banking-on-empowered-women-for-economic-rejuvenation/)

One of the most famous women in history once said: “Within crisis, are the seeds of opportunity”. The source of such a powerful truism? Marilyn Monroe, a woman who clearly possessed great wisdom, but is unfortunately remembered for her physical beauty than her intellectual and emotional strength.

While it may be hard to focus on growth during times of turbulence, those that are able to find those seeds of opportunity ultimately receive disproportionate benefits. Today Sri Lanka is in the middle of just such a moment. There is of course unanimous consensus that our nation needs to urgently identify and utilize every available opportunity to help revive and rejuvenate our economy. But the devil is in the details.

Therefore, in weighing our options, we should consider a few essential details. First, we must acknowledge that is a compelling reason why women’s empowerment is often raised in tandem with economic development. Globally, countries are estimated to lose US$160 trillion in wealth because of differences in lifetime earnings between women and men. This amounts to an average of US $23,620 for each person in the 141 countries studied by the World Bank.

Secondly, despite Sri Lanka’s rich history of female leadership at the top and outstanding female education rates – including near parity between men and women in higher education, Sri Lanka’s female labour force participation (FLFP) rate has been persistently entrenched at a dismal 32%; the same as it was a decade ago, and falling among the lowest in South Asia.

Most importantly, research has shown that Sri Lanka can increase our Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by as much as US$ 20 billion each year up to 2025, simply by advancing the cause of gender equality1. The question we must collectively ask ourselves this year is simple; can we afford to neglect this potential any longer?

Our hope this International Women’s Day is that in responding to Sri Lanka’s ongoing economic challenges, we also take the time to reflect on the significant contribution that women have made to the development of our nation and reach a firm consensus on the extensive measures we need to take to empower many more Sri Lankan women to reach their full potential.

Many of the obstacles faced by Sri Lankan women today are the product of generations of regressive attitudes and ideologies that have become entrenched to the point where today, they have created systemic failures. While these issues are certainly not unique to Sri Lanka, the solutions we create to address these issues will have to be.

One area that has the potential to have the highest impact is encouraging and supporting more women to become entrepreneurs. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka’s directive to the domestic banking sector to allocate 5% of its loan portfolio specifically for women-led enterprises was certainly a positive step in the right direction. The onus is now on our industry to carry forward this initiative with greater enthusiasm.

So far, approximately 3% of our total SME portfolio comprising 126,216 clients in total, has been channeled towards women-led enterprises. This means that in total, we have supported over 3,000 women-led SMEs to achieve their entrepreneurial dreams and gain an unprecedented level of control over their own finances. These businesses span diverse areas including everything home gardening, agriculture, food, fashion, packaging, and stationery.

In 2022, we aim to expand our SME lending by 20% Year-on-Year (YoY). In the process, we hope to further expand access to finance and opportunity for more women entrepreneurs. Capacity building will be another essential focus area, with a total of 40 structured capacity building programs already arranged over the course of the year, across the island.

HNB is also partnered with USAID for selected short-term SME development programs. Similarly, we partnered with ITC and the Sri Lankan Export Development Board to provide focused capacity building and financial literacy training to 100 women to support their aspirations to compete in international markets.

We are also partnering CIMA Sri Lanka to train and mentor women entrepreneurs, to help them unlock disproportionate growth potential in the SME space and leverage that growth to create more employment opportunities for women.

Over the year, HNB hopes to drive greater awareness and focus on these programs to ensure that funds and training are channeled to where they are most needed. However, while Sri Lankan women, on average, are better educated than their South Asian counterparts, they are less likely to use that education to secure economic advantages. Part of the problem is that our education system itself requires reform so that our next generation is better prepared with the hard and soft skills necessary to enter the workforce.

Similarly, we need to focus on expanding technical and vocational training to more women while simultaneously dispelling myths and biases against women taking up some jobs and not others.

Moving forward, Sri Lankans must join in creating a nurturing environment that is conducive for women entrepreneurs and address the specific pain-points that are most responsible for keeping women out of the workforce. These include practical investments in systems to ensure safe childcare, and transport.

Legal reforms are an important component, such as the domestic ratification of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Convention 190, which enshrines the right of everyone to a world of work, free from violence and harassment. However legal reform will only take us so far.

True progress requires that we also address the cultural dysfunction at the root of all gender-based discrimination. Because ultimately, change must start with each of us. In our homes, our schools, and our communities. Given that the stakes for economic development have never been higher, we must make sure that we get this right, to build a better, more equitable future that serves all Sri Lankans, regardless of their gender.

Fems AYA Celebrates the first year of its journey of eradicating period poverty

Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name *

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

## [20:13] Present govt. too has the same swing door policy of Mahinda Rajapaksa: Johnston

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Present-govt-too-has-the-same-swing-door-policy-of-Mahinda-Rajapaksa-Johnston/342-232530](https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Present-govt-too-has-the-same-swing-door-policy-of-Mahinda-Rajapaksa-Johnston/342-232530)

Chief Government Whip and Highways Minister Johnston Fernando said President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s government too has the same swing door’ policy of former President Mahinda Rajapaksa so that anyone could leave or join the government as they wish.

Speaking at a ceremony to declare the opening of a new building complex for Narammala Pradeshiya Sabha, the Minister said that all those within the government should understand that they have a role in protecting it. “One cannot be in the government while playing the role of the Opposition. The President had to remove two ministers because they overlooked their responsibility as government ministers and played the role of the Opposition. They must understand that the government still adhered to the saloon-door policy referred to by the incumbent Prime Minister," the Minister said.

“We have won Kurunegala district at past elections because Mahinda Rajapaksa was in our party. People voted for this government because of him. People respect the political leaders in the government because they respect the party which Mahinda Rajapaksa represents. I remember how he brought Gotabaya Rajapaksa to the Sugathadasa Stadium and introduced him to people as his youngest brother and called on them to vote for him. People voted for him and his government because they trusted Prime Minister Rajapaksa. They had realized the mistake they had committed in 2015. That was why Gotabaya Rajapaksa could defeat Sajith Premadasa who had the backing of forces in the North, the East and the blessings of the international forces.

“If Mahinda Rajapaksa continued as the President of the country without the 2015 regime change, this country would have faced any crisis including the global pandemic successfully The government that came to power in 2015 destroyed the economy Mahinda Rajapaksa built. They destroyed the national security and that was the main cause of the Easter Sunday terror attacks. That was when the dwindling of the dollar reserves started. Finally by the time we took over, the country was fighting with Afghanistan to avoid becoming the lowest economy in the region. What we experience today are the results of that reality," the minister added.

“We have imported necessary stocks of fuel and distribution has been streamlined and top priority has been given to filling stations. The fuel shortage would be resolved within 24 hours. We call on people not to panic or fall for the Opposition’s tactics because there would be enough fuel,” the Minister said. (Yohan Perera)

## [20:12] Fems AYA Celebrates the first year of its journey of eradicating period poverty

[http://island.lk/fems-aya-celebrates-the-first-year-of-its-journey-of-eradicating-period-poverty/](http://island.lk/fems-aya-celebrates-the-first-year-of-its-journey-of-eradicating-period-poverty/)

Fems Aya, the nationwide initiative of Fems, the feminine Sanitary Care brand of Hemas Consumer Brands celebrates its first anniversary of impacting lives and communities by offering awareness on menstrual health and equal access to low-cost high quality sanitary napkins.

Fems launched its purposeful initiative ‘Fems AYA’ on the International Women’s Day – March 8th, 2021, together with like-minded partners who are the Merrill J. Fernando Foundation, the Arka Initiative, Sarvodaya Women’s Movement, and Sarvodaya-Fusion. Dr. Sudarshani Fernandopulle, the State Minister of Primary Health Care, Epidemics and COVID Disease Control graced the event as chief guest supported by media personal

Throughout the past year and right through the pandemic Fems continued to create training and education for 2500 women in local communities in rural villages to plantation workers and youth. Training programmes were conducted, both virtually and in person, with the support of the project partners.

Being a progressive corporate leader, Hemas Consumer Brands was the first corporate that decided to live its purpose within the organization by implementing an in-house free distribution of Fems AYA sanitary napkins to 6700+ employees of both genders. This internal distribution amongst their workforce helped further push the normalization of the conversation among their personal and professional settings. The product itself played the role of delivering access to an affordable and high-quality menstrual hygiene product, but the drive encouraged all team members to get involved in the all-important discussion on menstrual health and hygiene.

The lack of knowledge about menstrual health and hygiene and the social stigma attached to periods hold back most people from talking about these topics openly. Hemas Consumer Brands believes that irrespective of gender, everyone should be able to speak about menstrual health and hygiene openly while menstrual education must be a part of society, which in turn will end the stigma surrounding menstrual health. In this regard, men can play a big role by taking the message across society and normalizing this conversation.

Along with the nationwide awareness initiative, Fems introduced Fems AYA, to address the need for an affordable sanitary napkin for Sri Lankan women. Fems AYA, a high-quality cotton-feel sanitary napkin with wings is manufactured in line with international standards and helps women stay comfortable and confident. All the raw materials used in its production meet the necessary safety standards, and it comes with a soft cotton-feel sheet for the woman’s comfort and wings for maximum protection.

Fems a brand that understands the needs of every Sri Lankan woman and delivers the promise of superior comfort and protection. Fems is available nationwide and is accessible to consumers in both urban and rural areas. As one of Sri Lanka’s leading sanitary care brands, Fems has won the hearts of many Sri Lankan women over the years and is renowned for providing superior comfort, protection, and cleanliness for women to rise above.

Sri Lanka’s future is decidedly female: banking on empowered women for economic rejuvenation

Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name *

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

## [20:11] MullenLowe Awarded ‘Agency of the Year’ For Three Years Consecutively

[http://island.lk/mullenlowe-awarded-agency-of-the-year-for-three-years-consecutively/](http://island.lk/mullenlowe-awarded-agency-of-the-year-for-three-years-consecutively/)

Becomes the first ever agency to win the coveted award from 2019-2021

MullenLowe Sri Lanka held up its reign as the ‘Most Effective Agency’ for the third consecutive year with its win of the coveted main award at the 2020/21 Effie Awards held recently, becoming the first ever agency to achieve this remarkable feat. This fresh accolade comes on top of the Sri Lanka office of IPG’s MullenLowe Group, being placed 36th most effective agency in the World and within the top 10 effective advertising offices in APAC, according to the Effie ranking released in 2019/20.

Emerging as the most awarded agency of the event, MullenLowe Sri Lanka was honored with 16 awards – 1 Gold, 2 Silver, 3 Bronze, 8 Finalists, and 1 contributing agency award as well, culminating in being awarded the esteemed ‘Agency of the Year’ award. Moreover, the agency also proved its outstanding contribution towards its clients, Unilever Sri Lanka and Softlogic Life Insurance, that walked away with the ‘Marketer of The Year’ and the ‘Brand of the Year’ awards respectively.

In a joint statement, commenting on the award, Nilushi Jayatileke – Marketing Director – Beauty and Personal Care and Head of Corporate Communications, and Sharmila Bandara – Marketing Director – Home Care, Foods & Refreshments and Water, Unilever Sri Lanka said, “With advertising being an essential discipline for effective consumer marketing, MullenLowe Sri Lanka supports us with messaging that resonates with consumers and deepens the bond these consumers have with our brands. As such, we would like to convey our heartiest congratulations to MullenLowe on being named ‘Effective Agency of the Year’ for the commendable work they have carried out”.

Speaking on this remarkable victory, Thayalan Bartlett – Chief Executive Officer, MullenLowe Sri Lanka said, “We value the Effie Awards highly, as it is a marker of the outstanding value we bring to our clients. Winning the ‘Effie Agency of The Year’, for the third consecutive year, shows just how consistent MullenLowe Sri Lanka is in producing highly creative work that becomes effective advertising, which delivers a high level of outstanding value to our brands across many formats, year after year”.

Sri Lanka Insurance introduces “Jana Rekuma” to extend insurance for general masses

Fems AYA Celebrates the first year of its journey of eradicating period poverty

Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name *

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

## [20:10] Sri Lanka Insurance introduces “Jana Rekuma” to extend insurance for general masses

[http://island.lk/sri-lanka-insurance-introduces-jana-rekuma-to-extend-insurance-for-general-masses/](http://island.lk/sri-lanka-insurance-introduces-jana-rekuma-to-extend-insurance-for-general-masses/)

The nation’s protector Sri Lanka Insurance introduces “Jana Rakuma” Individual Personal Accident Cover to extend the benefits of insurance to the general masses of Sri Lanka.

The “Jana Rekuma” Individual Personal Accident Cover caters to the mass market covering the individuals who are not insured, yet are highly vulnerable to various risks. The cover is specially designed with an affordable premium covering accidental death under three sum insured limits 250,000/-, 500,000/ and 1,000,000/-, and provides cover for funeral expenses and provides daily cash benefit in the event of hospitalization.

The much needed affordable insurance reflects the efforts of Sri Lanka Insurance to include more communities, segments and age groups under the banner of “Insurance for All” which develops practical and accessible insurance solutions for all socio-economic groups.

Sri Lanka Insurance is on a mission to facilitate broad bases insurance coverage for the country safeguarding and preserving the quality of life for every Sri Lankan forming the basis for great economic stability and reducing inequalities in the long run.

Sri Lanka Insurance Chairman Eng. Vijitha Herath and Chief Executive Officer Chandana L. Aluthgama and the corporate management obtained the “Jana Rekuma” Individual Personal Accident cover to symbolize the launch of the insurance. Further, an internal awareness drive was conducted across all departments of SLIC allowing SLIC staff members the opportunity to purchase the insurance cover.

SLT-MOBITEL empowers Keragala Ranaviru Village with high speed broadband connectivity solutions

Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name *

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

## [20:10] Dialog Axiata powers ‘Aya’ – national empowerment initiative, on Women’s Day

[http://island.lk/dialog-axiata-powers-aya-national-empowerment-initiative-on-womens-day/](http://island.lk/dialog-axiata-powers-aya-national-empowerment-initiative-on-womens-day/)

Furthering its commitment to fostering gender equality and breaking the bias, Dialog Axiata PLC, Sri Lanka’s premier connectivity provider, powered ‘Aya’, a National-level empowerment and development initiative celebrating International Women’s Day, organised by the State Ministry of Women and Child Development, Pre-Schools & Primary Education, School Infrastructure & Education Services.

‘Aya’ is a women-centric initiative kickstarting on March 8th at the Bandaranaike Memorial International Conference Hall (BMICH) in Colombo where it will carry on till April 7th to be concluded in the Monaragala district. Through a month-long series of marketplaces, panel discussions, recognition ceremonies, awareness workshops and much more, ‘Aya’ will tackle a range of topics, give avenues and platforms for the growth of women entrepreneurs, create awareness of gender inequalities in society, and bring together men, women, and children to #breakthebias by engaging them in discussions that will elevate the visibility of women and forge a path for their empowerment. This initiative will journey across Sri Lanka, covering a range of districts, including Anuradhapura, Nuwara Eliya, Kalutara, Puttalam, Gampaha, Mannar, and Kegalle.

Commenting on the partnership, State Secretary for the State Ministry of Women and Child Development, Pre-Schools & Primary Education, School Infrastructure & Education Services, Mrs. K. M. S. D. Jayasekera said, “We are pleased to initiate ‘Aya’, a month-long empowerment and development programme in line with this year’s International Women’s Day theme – #BreakTheBias. Women are the architects of our society…empowering them empowers the nation. We are grateful to Dialog Axiata for joining hands with us and supporting this national endeavour of enabling “gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow” in line with the United Nation’s theme for International Women’s Day.”

Dialog remains committed to providing women the supportive platforms needed to succeed in all their endeavours. Accordingly, in addition to powering the event, Dialog will be going a step further and extending the support and expertise of its women-centric platforms, including ‘Yeheli.lk/Thozhi.lk’, Sri Lanka’s only anonymous, personalised and interactive advisory service for individuals to connect with qualified virtual advisors and ‘IdeaMart for Women’, a female entrepreneurship and empowerment program specifically designed to promote digital entrepreneurship and improve technical skills. Furthermore, ‘Diriya.lk’, which is a one-stop hub for Sri Lankan entrepreneurs to learn, network and grow by receiving knowledge and expertise from industry specialists will also be featured during this programme.

Dialog is also the proud sponsor of the Women’s National Cricket Team of Sri Lanka as well as the Sri Lanka National Netball, Senior Netball, and Junior Netball Teams. The Company has close ties with the Dialog National and Junior National Netball Championship and is working together with its brand ambassadors, Umaria Sinhawansa, Senali Fonseka, Madhuvy Vaithialingam and Chamari Atapattu to create a culture of female empowerment and inclusivity across its footprint.

Sampath Bank recognized with top honors for its innovative IT solutions

Rising gold and oil prices exert negative impact on share market

Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name *

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

## [20:09] SLT-MOBITEL empowers Keragala Ranaviru Village with high speed broadband connectivity solutions

[http://island.lk/slt-mobitel-empowers-keragala-ranaviru-village-with-high-speed-broadband-connectivity-solutions/](http://island.lk/slt-mobitel-empowers-keragala-ranaviru-village-with-high-speed-broadband-connectivity-solutions/)

SLT-MOBITEL, the National ICT Solutions Provider, continued its commitment to empowering Sri Lanka with 100% 4G LTE connectivity solutions, inaugurating yet another base station at the Ranaviru Village in Keragala, Gampaha, providing high-speed internet and a host of connectivity solutions. The project will offer superior 4G LTE connectivity to war heroes’ families in the Ranaviru village and the neighbouring communities in the area.

The Ranaviru Villages are housing projects constructed island wide by the Sri Lanka Army to ensure the welfare of heroic soldiers who put in invaluable sacrifices to safeguard the nation. The ceremony was graced by the State Minister of Urban Development, Waste Disposal and Community Cleanliness, Dr. Nalaka Godahewa and the Senior Management of SLT-MOBITEL.

Understanding the importance of accelerating connectivity and supporting the educational requirements of students in rural areas, SLT-MOBITEL has provided a range of connectivity solutions including high speed 4G Broadband, Voice connectivity and many more. This project reaffirms SLT-MOBITEL’s untiring commitment to providing telecom infrastructure and connectivity solutions to promote digital transformation in rural areas and support the nation’s vision of bridging the digital divide.

In addition, SLT-MOBITEL also carried out its island wide Environmental Social Governance program of planting ‘Mee’ Trees at the event. The project was launched with a pledge to improve the environment and to preserve Sri Lanka’s flora and fauna.

Rising gold and oil prices exert negative impact on share market

Sri Lanka Insurance introduces “Jana Rekuma” to extend insurance for general masses

Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name *

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

## [20:08] Rising gold and oil prices exert negative impact on share market

[http://island.lk/rising-gold-and-oil-prices-exert-negative-impact-on-share-market/](http://island.lk/rising-gold-and-oil-prices-exert-negative-impact-on-share-market/)

The increase in global oil and gold prices created a negative investor sentiment at the CSE yesterday. Although the stock market commenced operations on a positive note it subsequently moved to red territory with the increase in global oil prices by US$ 30 per barrel and gold by US 2000 per pound, stock market analysts said.

The government is now in a dilemma on whether it should increase fuel prices or not, because if it increases these prices it would trigger a higher inflation rate and if it does not increase fuel prices and absorbs the losses, it would create major fiscal policy issues due to heavy money printing, stock market analysts added.

The current scenario dragged both CSE indices down. The All- Share Price Index went down by 283 points and S and P SL20 declined by 116 points. Turnover stood at Rs 3.5 billion with three crossings. Those crossings were reported in Access Engineering which crossed two million shares to the tune of Rs 49 million, its shares traded at Rs 24.50, JKH 220,000 shares crossed to the tune of Rs 31.8 million, its shares traded at Rs 144.50 and Renuka Holdings 1.7 million shares crossed to the tune of Rs 26.2 million, its shares traded at Rs 15.

In the retail market the top seven companies that mainly contributed to the turnover were; Commercial Leasing and Finance Rs 797 million (16.7 million shares traded), Expolanka Holdings Rs 392 million (1.4 million shares traded), LOLC Holdings Rs 224 million (232,000 shares traded), LOLC Finance Rs 214 million (10.3 million shares traded), JKH Rs 153 million (one million shares traded), Sinhaputhra Finance Rs 151 million (five millions shares traded) and Browns Investments Rs 137 million (11.9 million shares traded). During the day 102 million share volumes changed hands in 31000 transactions.

It is said high net worth and institutional investor participation was noted in JKH, Hemas Holdings and Hayleys. Mixed interest was observed in Expolanka Holdings, Lanka IOC and Royal Ceramics, while retail interest was noted in Browns Investments, Commercial Leasing and Finance and LOLC Finance.

The Diversified Financials sector was the top contributor to the market turnover (due to LOLC Holdings and Commercial Leasing and Finance).

Yesterday, the US dollar was Rs 201.63, which was the Central Bank controlled price. The Central Bank imposed a Rs 203 ceiling for the US dollar in order to prevent inflationary pressure. This year food inflation reached 25 percent, the historic highest rate, financial sources said.

Dialog Axiata powers ‘Aya’ – national empowerment initiative, on Women’s Day

SLT-MOBITEL empowers Keragala Ranaviru Village with high speed broadband connectivity solutions

Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name *

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

## [19:09] Cardinal requests UNHRC to support an impartial investigation

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Cardinal-requests-UNHRC-to-support-an-impartial-investigation/342-232529](https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Cardinal-requests-UNHRC-to-support-an-impartial-investigation/342-232529)

Archbishop of Colombo Cardinal Malcolm Ranjith today requested the UNHRC to support in ensuring an impartial investigation on the Easter Sunday attacks.

Speaking during the UNHRC sessions in Geneva, Cardinal Ranjith urged the UNHRC to support Sri Lanka in gathering vital information on the Easter Sunday attacks.

"Three years have passed since the dreaded attack and we are still in the dark without knowledge as to what really happened on that day. We call upon the UNHRC to support Sri Lanka in gathering more vital information on the Easter Sunday attacks and ensure an impartial investigation," the Cardinal said.

"The rights of those who were affected by the attacks have been violated as the government has failed to mete out justice to them," he added.

"We initially thought the mayhem was the work of few Islamic youth but we suspect now that it is a part of a grand political plot," he also said. (Yohan Perera)

## [17:49] People hurling eggs at rulers not too far away: SJB

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/People-hurling-eggs-at-rulers-not-too-far-away-SJB/342-232524](https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/People-hurling-eggs-at-rulers-not-too-far-away-SJB/342-232524)

Alleging that a government MP was behind the egg attack on Samagi Jana Balawegaya (SJB) headquarters today, SJB MP MP Chaminda Wijesiri said the day when people would throw eggs at the rulers of this country was not too far away.

He told a press conference that SJB cannot be silenced or deterred by such an attack.

" We will go ahead with our planned protest against the government in Colombo on March 15 and we challenge this MP to come and compete with us on that day. This MP should go and attack crowds at filling stations. He will get chased by the people without any doubt," he said.

"The day when people throw eggs at the rulers of this country is not too far away," he added. (Yohan Perera)

## [17:31] Power-cut hours to be trimmed: PUCSL Chairman

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Power-cut-hours-to-be-trimmed-PUCSL-Chairman/342-232527](https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Power-cut-hours-to-be-trimmed-PUCSL-Chairman/342-232527)

There is a tendency in reducing the number of power shedding hours by at least two hours with the presence of sufficient diesel and furnace oil and until we get enough rain, Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka (PUCSL) Chairman Janaka Rathnayaka said.

He said within two or three days we will receive adequate fuel for power generation in the country.

We have received a 30,000 MT furnace oil shipment today and the unloading process will start by tomorrow, he said.

We have sufficient coal in hand to operate the coal power plants. After once the adequate fuel arrives, the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) would generate 2,100 MW of electricity including 5 GW from hydropower which sufficient for the daily usage.

"With the 900 MW from Norochcholei power plant and another 1,200 MW from operating plants with the use of furnace oil and naptha, we can generate about 2,100 MW of electricity," he said.

Therefore, we would be able to trim the number of power shedding hours in the future. However, the power shedding has to be continued until the country receives adequate rainfall, the Chairman said. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)

## [16:35] Cause for Dec.3 countrywide blackout will be out soon: PUCSL Chairman

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Cause-for-Dec-3-countrywide-blackout-will-be-out-soon-PUCSL-Chairman/342-232528](https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Cause-for-Dec-3-countrywide-blackout-will-be-out-soon-PUCSL-Chairman/342-232528)

While holding public inquiry for the first time in the country, Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka (PUCSL) Chairman Janaka Rathnayaka said the cause for the countrywide blackout on December 3 will be reveled soon.

Addressing media following the public inquiry on the blackout, he said a successfull public investigation was conducted and the details of all those who were responsible were presented yesterday.

Today was the second day of the inquiry. All evidences were gathered successfully, he said.

The inquiry of the incident was broadcast live through the PUCSL official website to make the inquiry more transparent, the chairman said. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)

## [15:39] Cardinal urges UNHRC to ensure impartial probe into Easter Sunday attacks

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Cardinal-urges-UNHRC-to-ensure-impartial-probe-into-Easter-Sunday-attacks/342-232522](https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Cardinal-urges-UNHRC-to-ensure-impartial-probe-into-Easter-Sunday-attacks/342-232522)

Archbishop of Colombo Cardinal Malcolm Ranjith today requested the UNHRC to support in ensuring an impartial investigation into the Easter Sunday attacks.



Speaking during the UNHRC sessions in Geneva, Cardinal Ranjith urged the UNHRC to support Sri Lanka in gathering vital information on the Easter Sunday attacks.



"Three years have passed since the dreaded attack and we are still in the dark, not having any knowledge as to what really happened that day. We call upon the UNHRC to support Sri Lanka in gathering more vital  information on the Easter Sunday attacks and ensure an impartial investigation," the Cardinal said.



"The rights of those who were affected by the attacks have been violated as the government has failed to mete out justice to them," he added.



"We initially thought the mayhem.was the work of a few Islamic youth but we suspect now that it is a part of a grand political plot," he also said. (Yohan Perera)

## [14:53] Autopsy shows Shane Warne died of natural causes, Thai police say

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/breaking_news/Autopsy-shows-Shane-Warne-died-of-natural-causes-Thai-police-say/108-232518](https://www.dailymirror.lk/breaking_news/Autopsy-shows-Shane-Warne-died-of-natural-causes-Thai-police-say/108-232518)

An autopsy showed the death last week of Australian cricket great Shane Warne on an island in Thailand was due to natural causes, the Thai police said on Monday.

Warne's family were told of the result and had accepted the finding. His body would be transferred to Australian consular officials for return to the family, a deputy police spokesman said.

"Today investigators received the autopsy result, in which the medical opinion is that the cause of death is natural," Kissana Phathanacharoen said in a statement.

"Investigators will summarize the autopsy result for prosecutors within the timeframe of the law."

Well-wishers left tributes of flowers, flags, an Australian sports shirt, a can of beans and a packet of cigarettes outside the villa on the northeast coast of Koh Samui where Warne was found unconscious.

Warne, 52, one of the finest spin bowlers of all time, whose talent and personality transcended the sport, died on Friday, spurring tributes, with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison calling him "one of our nation's greatest characters"

Tom Hall, who was staying at the same resort where Warne was found unconscious in his room, said there were "no unusual circumstances" surrounding the flamboyant former cricketer's death.

Hall, chief executive of website the Sporting News, said none of Warne's travelling companions were aware of him visiting a doctor, though he had complained to a friend of "some chest pains and shortness of breath".

Earlier, Thai police said Warne also had asthma and some heart issues, citing information from his family. read more

Australian media said Warne's family funeral would be followed by a memorial service at the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) within two or three weeks.

The Great Southern Stand at the MCG, where the spinner took his 700th wicket on Boxing Day 2006, will be renamed the S K Warne Stand.(Reuters)

## [14:50] UK calls on SL to engage constructively with recommendations in resolution 46/1

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/UK-calls-on-SL-to-engage-constructively-with-recommendations-in-resolution-461/342-232519](https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/UK-calls-on-SL-to-engage-constructively-with-recommendations-in-resolution-461/342-232519)

While raising concerns regarding the continued lack of progress on accountability and regret that there have been setbacks in several emblematic human rights cases, the United Kingdom called on the Government of Sri Lanka to engage constructively with the recommendations in resolution 46/1 and to co-operate with your Office.

The UK's Global Ambassador for Human Rights, Rita French delivering her statement during the Interactive Dialogue on the OHCHR report on Sri Lanka, said they welcomed recent releases on bail of Ahnaf Jazeem and Hejaaz Hizbullah as a positive first step. Whilst we acknowledge initial reforms of the Prevention of Terrorism Act, these do not go far enough.

"Madam High Commissioner, The United Kingdom welcomes your update. We share your concerns regarding the continued lack of progress on accountability and regret that there have been setbacks in several emblematic human rights cases.

We welcome recent releases on bail of Ahnaf Jazeem and Hejaaz Hizbullah as a positive first step. Whilst we acknowledge initial reforms of the Prevention of Terrorism Act, these do not go far enough.

Whilst we acknowledge the NGO Secretariat move to the Foreign Ministry, we have concerns around surveillance and harassment of civil society, and militarisation of civilian governmental functions. The appointment of an individual, named in a key emblematic case, to the post of Provincial Governor, is particularly worrying.

Whilst we acknowledge ongoing work in Government institutions on reparations and missing persons, it is crucial this is accompanied by a comprehensive reconciliation and accountability process.

We note with concern that minority communities are facing increased marginalisation, with allegations of land grabs in the North and East of the country.

We call on the Government of Sri Lanka to engage constructively with the recommendations in resolution 46/1 and to co-operate with your Office," she said.

## [14:48] Ex-CID chief Ravi Seneviratne files FR to prevent being arrested by CID

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Ex-CID-chief-Ravi-Seneviratne-files-FR-to-prevent-being-arrested-by-CID/342-232520](https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Ex-CID-chief-Ravi-Seneviratne-files-FR-to-prevent-being-arrested-by-CID/342-232520)

Former Chief of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) Senior DIG Ravi Seneviratne has filed a Fundamental Rights petition in Supreme Court seeking an order preventing CID from arresting him in respect of the allegations mentioned at the Kuliyapitiya Magistrate's Court.



Former CID Chief also seeking an order restraining President Gotabaya Rajapakse from issuing a detention order in terms of section 9(1) of the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) in his capacity as the Minister of Defence in respect of the allegations set out in a B-Repor at Kuliyapitiya Magistrate's Court.



Ravi Seneviratne said he became aware that on February 10, 2022 , a B report has been filed by Chief Inspector Lalitha Dissanayake alleging that as a result of the serious omissions made by the petitioner and the former Director CID, SSP Shani Abeysekara whichpaved the way to the Easter Sunday Attack.



Seneviratne further said the respondents are attempting to falsely implicate him by launching a biased, illegal and unreasonable investigation based on a false and belated anonymous petition alleging that he was derelict in his duties during the investigations of NTJ and Saharan.



The petitioner said the respondents are seeking to have him arrested and detained under the PTA or remanded in mala fide.



The petitioner had named ASP Meril Ranjan Lamahewa, Chief Inspector Niroshini Hewapathirana and Chief Inspector Induka Silva and several others as respondents. (Lakmal Sooriyagoda)

## [14:19] SL’s Largest cement factory declared open in Hambantota

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/SLs-Largest-cement-factory-declared-open-in-Hambantota/342-232521](https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/SLs-Largest-cement-factory-declared-open-in-Hambantota/342-232521)

President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa today inaugurated the cement manufacturing facility of Lanwa Sanstha Cement Corporation (Pvt) Ltd., the largest cement factory in the country, located in the Magampura Lanka Industrial Zone.

The President and the Prime Minister who arrived at the venue also laid the foundation stone for the proposed new steel factory.

The investment for the new steel plant, which will be built on 250 acres of land, is US $ 400 million. The manufacturing process is scheduled to begin in late 2024.

The President and the Prime Minister unveiled the plaque at the opening of the new cement factory and inspected the factory premises.

The investment for the cement factory, which commenced construction in March 2020, was US $ 100 million. Covering an area of 63 acres, it is one of the largest cement factories in the South Asian region.

The factory has an annual production capacity of 04 million metric tons and will supply 2.8 million metric tons to the local market under the first phase, said the management.

Conveyor belts are used to transport the raw materials between the port and the factory with the aim of ensuring high efficiency and reducing waste and pollution, and the factory has a fully automatic Stacker Reclaimer Yard and Bridge-Type Ship Unloader.

This will enable the handling of goods using technology instead of labour, in line with international trends. Lanwa Sanstha Cement Factory is also designed to manufacture all types of cement, including ordinary Portland, Portland composite and blended hydraulics.

## [14:18] Basil orders LG heads to switch off all street lamps to conserve electricity

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Basil-orders-LG-heads-to-switch-off-all-street-lamps-to-conserve-electricity/342-232517](https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Basil-orders-LG-heads-to-switch-off-all-street-lamps-to-conserve-electricity/342-232517)

Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa has instructed all Local Government heads in the country to switch off all the street lamps in their respective Local Government areas until March 31 so as to conserve electricity.

The Finance Minister, in a letter, has also directed the Local government heads to implement any alternative plans to conserve electricity with minimum impact on the daily activities of the people.

He said diesel plants have to be used for power generation as hydropower generation has dropped remarkably due to the prevailing drought.

## [14:14] Release Ranjan...

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Release-Ranjan/342-232516](https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Release-Ranjan/342-232516)

A group of people staged a protest outside the United Nations Office in Colombo calling for the removal of imprisoned Ranjan Ramanayake. They also submitted a petition to the UN Office. Pix by Pradeep Dilrukshana

## [13:42] Last respect to Nedungamuwe Raja

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/caption_story/Last-respect-to-Nedungamuwe-Raja/110-232514](https://www.dailymirror.lk/caption_story/Last-respect-to-Nedungamuwe-Raja/110-232514)

Hundreds of people are seen gathered in Nedungamuwa, Weliweriya to pay their last respect to 'Nedungamuwe Raja'. Pix by Kushan Pathiraja

## [13:31] Causing disturbance to public: Case against Wimal and others fixed for trial

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Causing-disturbance-to-public-Case-against-Wimal-and-others-fixed-for-trial/342-232513](https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Causing-disturbance-to-public-Case-against-Wimal-and-others-fixed-for-trial/342-232513)

A case filed against National Freedom Front (NFF) leader Wimal Weerawansa and six other party activists for allegedly providing leadership to a protest which blocks the main roads at Bauddhaloka Mawatha, causing disturbance to the people and the normal flow of traffic was today fixed for trial by Colombo Chief Magistrate’s Court.



Additional Magistrate Chandima Liyanage fixed the case to be heard on May 30. The prosecution witnesses were directed to appear before Court next trial date.



On February 6, 2016, the NFF staged a protest march against the visit of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein.



Six suspects including NFF leader and former Minister Wimal Weerawansa, Jayantha Samaraweera, Weerakumara Dissanayake, Piyasiri Wijenayake, Roger Seneviratne, Mohammed Muzammil and Don Lusian had been named as the suspects in the case.  The seventh suspect Chaminda Jayalal was not present in Court.



The Cinnamon Gardens Police had informed Court that the suspects who organized the procession had failed to obtain the prior permission from police to organise the march. They further alleged that the organizers had also used loudspeakers without a valid license. Police had further submitted to Court that the suspects provided leadership to a protest which blocks the main road at Bauddhaloka Mawatha towards Havelock Town, causing disturbance to the people and the normal flow of traffic. (Lakmal Sooriyagoda)

## [13:05] Will boycott Cabinet meeting tonight: Vasu

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Will-boycott-Cabinet-meeting-tonight-Vasu/342-232511](https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Will-boycott-Cabinet-meeting-tonight-Vasu/342-232511)

Minister of Water Supply Vasudeva Nanayakkara said he will boycott the Cabinet meeting to be held tonight.

He said his party, the Democratic Left Front, has approved his decision to boycott cabinet meetings as a protest against the sacking of two ministers.

He said, however, the Central Committee of the party instructed him to continue his duties as a minister.

## [12:45] SLAF gears to protect environment

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/caption_story/SLAF-gears-to-protect-environment/110-232523](https://www.dailymirror.lk/caption_story/SLAF-gears-to-protect-environment/110-232523)

The Sri Lanka Air Force commenced a sramadana campaign in a major scale at Colombo area to eliminate the dengue breeding places and to keep the environment clean.



This programme was launched with the participation over 3,000 SLAF members which in parallel to the 71st Air Force Day Celebration under the directives by the Commander of the Air Force, Air Marshal Sudarshana Pathirana.

## [12:30] Nedungamuwe Raja to be declared as National Treasure, Prez orders

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/breaking_news/Nedungamuwe-Raja-to-be-declared-as-National-Treasure-Prez-orders/108-232509](https://www.dailymirror.lk/breaking_news/Nedungamuwe-Raja-to-be-declared-as-National-Treasure-Prez-orders/108-232509)

President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has instructed Secretary to the Ministry of Buddhasasana, Religious and Cultural Affairs Prof. Kapila Gunawardena to declare the deceased tusker Nedungamuwe Raja who was the main casket bearer of the Esala perahera held in Kandy as a national treasure.



The President has also directed the officials to preserve the carcass of the Nedungamuwe Raja for the benefit of future generation.



Meanwhile, the PMD said a team of officials from the National Museum had gone to Nedungamuwa, Weliweriya, Gampaha where the tusker was kept and cared.

## [12:15] Tense situation at Consular section of Foreign Ministry

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/breaking_news/Tense-situation-at-Consular-section-of-Foreign-Ministry/108-232508](https://www.dailymirror.lk/breaking_news/Tense-situation-at-Consular-section-of-Foreign-Ministry/108-232508)

A tense situation was reported at the Consular Affairs Division of the Foreign Ministry this morning.

It is reported that the situation triggered due to the inconvenience caused to the visitors who had come to the division to obtain services due to power outage.

## [11:59] Public call on Govt. to go home...

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/caption_story/Public-call-on-Govt-to-go-home/110-232506](https://www.dailymirror.lk/caption_story/Public-call-on-Govt-to-go-home/110-232506)

A group of individuals staged a protest holding candles in Kohuwala and Rajagiriya against Government’s mismanagement of economic policies which has led to a debacle causing heavy burden on general public. The protestors called on the government to go home and urged politicians to stop playing with people's lives. Pix by Kushan Pathiraja

## [11:50] Protest outside SJB office in Kotte

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Protest-outside-SJB-office-in-Kotte/342-232507](https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Protest-outside-SJB-office-in-Kotte/342-232507)

A group of people staged a protest in front of the Samagi Jana Balawegaya (SJB) office in Kotte this morning.

The protestors were displaying placards asking what the previous government had done to the economy and power crisis when they were in power.

An egg attack is also reported during the protest.

Meanwhile, some SJB supporters who were in the office premises retaliated by highlighting the present precarious situation.























Pix by Nisal Baduge

## [10:23] Brent crude nears $140 per barrel, headed towards all-time high

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/breaking_news/Brent-crude-nears-140-per-barrel-headed-towards-all-time-high/108-232502](https://www.dailymirror.lk/breaking_news/Brent-crude-nears-140-per-barrel-headed-towards-all-time-high/108-232502)

Brent oil prices soared to a near 14-year high of $140 on Sunday as traders fretted over the fallout from Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Brent North Sea crude oil for May delivery reached $139.13 shortly after electronic trading opened around 2300 GMT, heading towards a 2008 record high before retreating slightly over the next hour.

The European benchmark crude hit its record price of $147.50 per barrel in July 2008.

By 0030 GMT, Brent crude had dropped a little more to $128.77 per barrel — 9.02 percent higher than its closing price on Friday.

The price per barrel of Brent oil has increased 33 percent since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24.

New York’s benchmark West Texas Intermediate oil also soared Sunday to $130.50 per barrel for April delivery. It, too, then dropped slightly over the next hour and a half.

By 0030 GMT, WTI crude was at $125.15 per barrel, an 8.18 percent increase from its closing price on Friday.

US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Sunday that Washington was in “active discussions” with European nations about banning Russian oil imports as further economic penalty against Moscow, although he stopped short of announcing an outright boycott.

Even if oil is technically still exempt from sanctions, Russian oil exporters are struggling to find buyers. Shell is one of the only companies still buying Russian oil, although it said it would donate the profits to Ukrainian causes.

Asked Sunday on CNN about Shell’s announcement, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba urged Shell and other energy giants to cut off Moscow’s biggest revenue source and “stop buying Russian oil.”

“Russian oil and gas smells of Ukrainian blood,” he said.(AFP)

## [10:05] Denara to kick off  first training programmes for young enterprising women

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Denara-to-kick-off-first-training-programmes-for-young-enterprising-women/342-232515](https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Denara-to-kick-off-first-training-programmes-for-young-enterprising-women/342-232515)

Denara Training Institute will kick-start their mission and vision while planning to inaugurate their first training programmes for young enterprising women, which coincides with the celebration of International Women's Day.

Denara Training Institute was established in October 2021 with a vision of training young women of all communities living in Sri Lanka in technical and social skills. Why Denara? Because, the name is of Persian origin which refers to "children of heaven and earth.”

Denara is a not for profit organisation, but has to be financially sustainable and hence will charge a nominal fee for the courses they plan to offer. Centrally located in Colombo 5, the establishment of Denara Training Institute is meant to empower women to be independent and take charge of their adult life. It is proposed to have a two part programme to impart employable skills and social skills needed to transition the student to an independent adult life. Speaking to Fathima Aziz, Director, Denara Training Institute, this is what she had to say: "We are looking forward to launching our training programmes for young enterprising women."

The Management proposes to establish English Language Training courses, including Spoken English, Speech and Drama. There will also be courses in Presentation Skills, Conflict Resolution and Negotiation Skills suitable for the current job market. Life skills workshops would include understanding their rights, financial independence, balancing family life and maintaining emotional and overall health. Trained students can subsequently join Denara as a teacher, trainer or counsellor on a paid or voluntary basis as required. It is also proposed to establish a Computer Lab offering IT Skills Training Courses in the near future.

To kick-start their mission and vision, they plan to inaugurate their first programme which coincides with the celebration of International Women's Day. The Denara Training Institute has organized a Cookery Demonstration in association with Singer Sri Lanka (PLC) featuring Ms. Jovanka Jayaweera of Big Bird Delights on Saturday 12th March from 3 to 6 pm at their premises in Mangala Gardens, Colombo 5. She will prepare a variety of popular items using Singer Home Appliances and demonstrate innovative ways to prepare delectable dishes.

International Women's Day is celebrated globally on 8th March celebrating the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women. International Women's Day has been celebrated for well over a century since 1911. Today, International Women's Day belongs to all groups collectively everywhere and is not confined to any country, group or organisation. The identified theme for 2022 is "Break the Bias."

For further details on available courses, please contact the Denara Training Institute Office located at No 191/50, Mangala Gardens, Off Thimbirigasyaya Road, Colombo 5 or on Tel 011-2505646 or 0778539890.

## [09:59] Private buses get diesel at SLTB depots

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/caption_story/Private-buses-get-diesel-at-SLTB-depots/110-232493](https://www.dailymirror.lk/caption_story/Private-buses-get-diesel-at-SLTB-depots/110-232493)

Due to shortage of diesel in fuel stations, private buses are allowed to get the required diesel from the depots owned by the Sri Lanka Transport Board (SLTB). Pix by Nisal Baduge

## [09:45] Severe gas shortage due to forex issue

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Severe-gas-shortage-due-to-forex-issue/342-232492](https://www.dailymirror.lk/latest_news/Severe-gas-shortage-due-to-forex-issue/342-232492)

The country is currently facing a severe gas shortage as three gas tankers are being anchored off the Sri Lankan waters due to the non-issuance of letters of credit by Sri Lankan commercial banks in the face of the dollar crisis.

Informed sources said that since last Friday distribution of Litro gas has come to a complete halt. Our reporters confirmed that people from most of the areas in the country are complaining about the gas shortage in their respective areas.

Due to the shortage, operations of crematoriums, factories and large scale hotels, bakeries have been severely affected. “Some 1000 bakeries have already halted their operations temporarily due to the lack of gas,” a spokesman for the All Ceylon Bakery Owners’ Association said.

Several attempts to contact Litro Gas Company officials have failed.

Meanwhile, informed sources revealed that three gas tankers have been anchored in Sri Lankan waters for the past six days due to the non-issuance of letters of credit by Sri Lankan commercial banks.

Meanwhile, several public protests were held in some areas in the country during the past few days over the gas shortage. (Sunil Jayasiri)

## [03:10] 1,147 COVID-19 cases detected over the weekend

[https://www.ft.lk/news/1-147-COVID-19-cases-detected-over-the-weekend/56-731591](https://www.ft.lk/news/1-147-COVID-19-cases-detected-over-the-weekend/56-731591)

Daily detections drop to 508 on Sunday

Total COVID-19 case count rises to 650,140

8,319 COVID-19 recoveries added to total

Active cases drop to 15,668





By Shailendree Wickrama Adittiya



Sri Lanka’s COVID-19 case count exceeded 650,000 following the detection of 1,147 COVID-19 patients over the weekend.

The Department of Government Information states that 508 persons from the New Year cluster tested positive for COVID-19 yesterday.

The previous day, 639 patients linked to the New Year cluster were detected. According to the Health Promotion Bureau, 4,215 PCR tests and 2,456 rapid antigen tests were conducted on Saturday.

Since 27 February, daily PCR testing has remained below 5,500 and daily rapid antigen testing has remained below 3,000.

Sri Lanka’s COVID-19 case count currently stands at 650,140.

According to the Epidemiology Unit, 544,447 patients from the New Year cluster, 82,785 patients from the Peliyagoda cluster, 9,154 patients from the Prisons cluster, and 3,059 patients from the Divulapitiya cluster have been detected.

In terms of imported cases, 7,235 Sri Lankan returnees from overseas and 328 foreigners have tested positive for COVID-19.

Sri Lanka’s total COVID-19 case count includes 135,579 persons from Colombo, 112,777 persons from Gampaha, 57,519 persons from Kalutara, 43,391 persons from Galle, and 30,874 persons from Kurunegala.

During the third wave of the pandemic, 103,282 patients from Colombo, 94,243 patients from Gampaha, and 50,461 patients from Kalutara were detected.

According to the Epidemiology Unit, 8,319 COVID-19 patients who completed 10 days of home-based care without requiring hospitalisation between 20 February and 4 March were added to the total yesterday. This includes 167 persons discharged from treatment centres yesterday.

The country’s total COVID-19 recoveries have risen to 618,141

At present, 15,668 persons are receiving medical or home-based care and 834 persons suspected of having COVID-19 are under observation.

## [03:09] 10 COVID-19 fatalities confirmed on Saturday

[https://www.ft.lk/news/10-COVID-19-fatalities-confirmed-on-Saturday/56-731590](https://www.ft.lk/news/10-COVID-19-fatalities-confirmed-on-Saturday/56-731590)

Health officials confirmed ten COVID-19 fatalities on Saturday and the country’s COVID-19 death toll has risen to 16,331.

Seven COVID-19 fatalities confirmed on Saturday were from the over-60 age group and three were from the 30 to 59 age group. Zero COVID-19 deaths were confirmed from the under-30 age group on Saturday.

The Epidemiology Unit states that 76.27% of the total COVID-19 deaths in the country are over 60 years, 22.42% are between 30 and 59 years, and 1.31% are below 30 years.

Seven COVID-19 fatalities confirmed on Saturday were male and three were female. Of the total COVID-19 deaths, 9,205 are male and 7,126 are female.

## [03:08] 42,112 persons vaccinated against COVID-19

[https://www.ft.lk/news/42-112-persons-vaccinated-against-COVID-19/56-731589](https://www.ft.lk/news/42-112-persons-vaccinated-against-COVID-19/56-731589)

First dose vaccination coverage in the country has risen to 78.7% with 42,112 persons vaccinated against COVID-19 on Saturday.

As of 4 March, second dose coverage was 66.04% of the total population, Our World in Data States.

According to the Epidemiology Unit, 16,921,171 persons have received the first dose of a COVID-19 vaccine and 14,205,539 persons have received the second dose as well.

The third dose has been administered to 7,306,152 persons. This includes 30,381 persons vaccinated on Saturday.

The Epidemiology Unit states that 2,593 persons received the first dose of Pfizer on Saturday and 6,281 persons received the second dose of the vaccine. In total, 2,452,888 persons have received the first dose of Pfizer and 741,778 persons have received the second dose as well. On Saturday, 786 persons received the first dose of Sinopharm, raising the number of persons to have received the first dose of the vaccine in total to 12,024,741. The second dose of Sinopahrm has been administered to 11,101,995 persons. This includes 2,071 persons vaccinated on Saturday.

The first dose of AstraZeneca has been administered to 1,479,631 persons and the second dose has been administered to 1,418,593 persons.

A total of 804,801 persons have received the first dose of Moderna and 787,361 persons have received the second dose as well.

The Epidemiology Unit states that 159,110 persons have received the first dose of Sputnik V and 155,812 persons have received the second dose of the vaccine.

## [02:59] Two Ministers and two State Ministers sworn in

[https://www.ft.lk/news/Two-Ministers-and-two-State-Ministers-sworn-in/56-731588](https://www.ft.lk/news/Two-Ministers-and-two-State-Ministers-sworn-in/56-731588)

Two Cabinet Ministers and a State Minister have been appointed by President Gotabaya Rajapaksa.

State Minister Dilum Amunugama was sworn in as the new Cabinet Minister of Transport.

Amunugama was appointed for the portfolio which became vacant after Pavithra Wanniarachchi, who was serving as the Transport Minister, was sworn in as the new Minister of Power on Thursday following the sacking of Udaya Gammanpila.

C.B. Ratnayake was sworn in as the Minister of Wildlife and Wildlife Conservation, and Wimalaweera Dissanayake as the State Minister of Disaster Management.

Arundika Fernando, who resigned from his post over the assault on Kelaniya University medical students, was also sworn in as the State Minister for Coconut, Kitul and Palmyrah Cultivation Promotion and Allied Industrial Products Production and Export Diversification.

New ministerial portfolios after reshuffle:

Gamini Lokuge - Minister of Energy

Pavithra Wanniarachchi - Minister of Power

S.B. Dissanayake - Minister of Industries

Dilum Amunugama - Minister of Transport

Arundika Fernando - State Minister of Coconut, Kithul and Palmyra Cultivation Promotion, Related Industrial Product Manufacturing and Export Diversification

C.B. Ratnayake - Minister of Wildlife Protection and Forest Resources Development

Wimalaweera Dissanayake - State Minister of Disaster Management

## [02:46] Dayasiri says SLFP will not leave Govt.

[https://www.ft.lk/news/Dayasiri-says-SLFP-will-not-leave-Govt/56-731586](https://www.ft.lk/news/Dayasiri-says-SLFP-will-not-leave-Govt/56-731586)

General Secretary State Minister Dayasiri Jayasekara













Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) General Secretary State Minister Dayasiri Jayasekara says no decision has been taken to leave the Government and the party will continue to work with the Government.

The State Minister made this statement following a meeting of the SLFP District and Electoral Organizers held in Colombo Saturday.

Dayasiri said that a discussion will be held with the President on Tuesday (8 March) on the current political situation and future course of action. All SLFP district and electorate organizers were summoned to Colombo today for the meeting held at the SLFP headquarters yesterday. The meeting was held under the patronage of the Chairman of the SLFP, former President Maithripala Sirisena.

A special discussion between President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and the 14 members of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party will be held at 4.00 p.m. on Tuesday at the Presidential Secretariat.

Sources say that the proposal submitted by the Sri Lanka Freedom Party regarding the crisis in the country will be discussed at the meeting.

The Sri Lanka Freedom Party recently tabled a 15-point resolution on the economic and political crisis in the country.

Meanwhile, a special discussion between the leaders of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party and the leaders of the Government’s allied parties was held at the office of Parliamentarian Tiran Alles Saturday.

It is reported that the removal of Wimal Weerawansa and Udaya Gammanpila from their ministerial posts as well as the invitation extended by the President to the SLFP to come to a discussion were discussed at length.

Former President Maithripala Sirisena, General Secretary Dayasiri Jayasekara, State Ministers Duminda Dissanayake, Lasantha Alagiyawanna, Minister Vasudeva Nanayakkara, MPs Athuraliye Rathana Thero, Wimal Weerawansa, Udaya Gammanpila, Prof. Tissa Vitharana, Tiran Alles, Gevindu Kumaratunga, Weerasumana Weerasinghe, Dr. G Weerasinghe, DEW Gunasekara and others participated in the discussion.

## [02:43] IFC reaffirms commitment to Sri Lanka amid plans to increase investments

[https://www.ft.lk/business/IFC-reaffirms-commitment-to-Sri-Lanka-amid-plans-to-increase-investments/34-731585](https://www.ft.lk/business/IFC-reaffirms-commitment-to-Sri-Lanka-amid-plans-to-increase-investments/34-731585)

IFC’s Vice President for Risk Mohamed Gouled; Country Officer for IFC Sri Lanka and Maldives Victor Antonypillai; World Bank Country Director for Sri Lanka, Maldives and Nepal Faris Hadad-Zervos; Regional Director for South Asia Hector Gomez Ang; Country Manager for Sri Lanka and the Maldives Lisa Kaestner; IFC Regional Vice President for Asia and the Pacific Alfonso Garcia Mora; President of Sri Lanka Gotabaya Rajapaksa; Secretary to President Gamini Senarath; Principal  Advisor to the President Lalith Weeratunga; Secretary/Ministry of Finance S.R. Attygalle and Director General/External Resources Department Ajith Abeysekera















JKH Chairman Krishan Balendra and IFC Regional Vice President for Asia and the Pacific Alfonso Garcia Mora













A top IFC official says the development organisation aims to boost its investments in Sri Lanka, with a focus on supporting private sector job creation, paving the way for robust investments to help spur the country’s recovery and future growth.

The comments by IFC Regional Vice President for Asia and the Pacific Alfonso Garcia Mora, came at the end of a three-day visit to Sri Lanka, which included a meeting with the President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa, government officials, including the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal, private sector representatives, entrepreneurs, and development partners.

Garcia Mora was accompanied by IFC’s Vice President for Risk Mohamed Gouled, Regional Director for South Asia Hector Gomez Ang and the new Country Manager for Sri Lanka and the Maldives Lisa Kaestner, as well as the World Bank Country Director for Sri Lanka, Maldives and Nepal Faris Hadad-Zervos.

“In my meeting with His Excellency the President, we discussed the need to have a sound macro fiscal stability to attract foreign capital and provide medium- and long-term certainty,” Garcia Mora said. “The talks also focused on ways to maximise the potential of the country’s private sector to help address Sri Lanka’s challenges and achieve the inclusive growth the country needs.”

“We are committed to Sri Lanka,” Garcia Mora said. “This is demonstrated by our investment commitments in the past six months which have targeted export-oriented industries. Since the onset of the pandemic, IFC has also played a strong counter cyclical role in its financing and will continue to build on that program going forward.”

During his meetings, Garcia Mora highlighted IFC's investment of $ 450 million during the first 18 months of the pandemic in Sri Lanka as a sign of IFC's steadfast commitment to the country.

“We are working with the private sector in the country to create a robust investment pipeline and this can be accelerated with additional reforms in the infrastructure sector, allowing the private sector to play a bigger role,” Garcia Mora said. “IFC intends to invest a further $ 150 million during the current fiscal year ending in June 2022. Over the next five years, IFC is looking at an investment pipeline of more than $ 800 million, specifically in supporting growth-enabling sustainable infrastructure.”

IFC’s efforts will focus around three strategic pillars in Sri Lanka: supporting innovation for growth, including export diversification, start-ups, niche market agriculture and value additions for export, high tech manufacturing; growth-enabling sustainable infrastructure, including low-cost clean energy, sustainable transport and logistics systems; and deepening social and financial inclusion, including digitisation, economic participation of underserved people, especially women.

While in Colombo, Garcia Mora also signed a cooperation agreement with John Keells Holdings (JKH) to develop a commercially viable and sustainable street market in Colombo 2, which will also promote women’s participation in hospitality and tourism. The officials also had the opportunity to meet clients and partners of Women in Work program – IFC’s largest, standalone country-based gender program designed to close gender gaps in Sri Lanka’s private sector.

Since the beginning of the pandemic, IFC has invested $ 450 million in Sri Lanka, including $ 175 million in JKH to boost retail and tourism – IFC’s largest investment in Sri Lanka over its 50-year operations. As part of the overall pandemic response, IFC injected $ 50 million in Commercial Bank of Ceylon and $ 25 million in Nations Trust Bank to help small businesses stay afloat during the height of the pandemic.

IFC’s strategy also focused on expanding export diversification, promoting sustainability and inclusive growth. Last year, IFC piloted a new digital health program – DigiHealth – to boost access to affordable and quality health-care services in Sri Lanka and beyond.

In October, IFC also issued its first-ever rupee-denominated bond in the country – the ‘Serendib Bond’ – to ensure that the private-sector has access to long-term offshore financing in local currency.

## [02:40] Call for proposals: Saman Kelegama Memorial Research Grant 2022

[https://www.ft.lk/business/Call-for-proposals-Saman-Kelegama-Memorial-Research-Grant-2022/34-731584](https://www.ft.lk/business/Call-for-proposals-Saman-Kelegama-Memorial-Research-Grant-2022/34-731584)

The Institute of Policy Studies of Sri Lanka (IPS) is inviting proposals for the Saman Kelegama Memorial Research Grant 2022. The grant is an annual merit-based grant, awarded to an outstanding undergraduate studying in a Sri Lankan university. It aims to promote policy entrepreneurs among undergraduates by encouraging policy-relevant, rigorous and innovative socio-economic research.

The grant was established in 2018 to honour Dr. Saman Kelegama’s legacy of independent research and public policy engagement in socio-economic development in Sri Lanka and the wider South Asian region. Dr. Kelegama was the Executive Director of the IPS from 1995 to 2017.

Fourth-year undergraduates studying economics or a related subject in a University Grants Commission approved university or higher education institution in Sri Lanka are eligible to apply.

Proposals must be written according to the guidelines provided and emailed to nilmini@ips.lk on or before the submission deadline of 30 April 2022.



How will the winner be chosen?

The quality of the proposals will be judged for its policy relevance, feasibility, originality and creativity. Three finalists will be chosen and invited to present their proposals at the IPS, where the award recipient will be selected.



Outcomes of the grants

The recipient will be expected to produce a Policy Discussion Brief in six months of receiving the grant. The research report can be written individually or jointly with an IPS senior researcher.



Benefit of the grant

The beneficiary will be awarded a one-time research grant of Rs. 200,000 to carry out the proposed research and a three-month internship at the IPS. The recipient will be able to seek guidance from senior researchers and benefit from IPS resources to complete the proposed study during the internship. To allow students from all over Sri Lanka to benefit from this opportunity, the terms of the internship will be flexible. The internship can either be a fully in-house internship at IPS or it can be an in-house plus online internship. In the case of the second option, the in-house component of the internship should be at least six weeks. To encourage research dissemination, an additional subsidy will be provided for presenting the research findings at local conferences and workshops.



Important Dates

30 April 2022 – Deadline for Submission of Proposals

01 June 2022 – Announcement of Finalists

23 June 2022 – Announcement of the Winner

Further information is available at: https://www.ips.lk/saman-kelegama-memorial-research-grant/

## [02:38] Sister of the Sri Lankan woman Wishma Sandamali

[https://www.ft.lk/news/Sister-of-the-Sri-Lankan-woman-Wishma-Sandamali/56-731587](https://www.ft.lk/news/Sister-of-the-Sri-Lankan-woman-Wishma-Sandamali/56-731587)

Sister of the Sri Lankan woman Wishma Sandamali, who died a year ago while in a Japanese immigration detention, carries a picture of her late sister as she walks to the Nagoya district court on 4 March, to file a lawsuit against the Government of Japan

## [02:18] Chorus growing at UNHRC for greater democracy and justice in Sri Lanka

[https://www.ft.lk/news/Chorus-growing-at-UNHRC-for-greater-democracy-and-justice-in-Sri-Lanka/56-731596](https://www.ft.lk/news/Chorus-growing-at-UNHRC-for-greater-democracy-and-justice-in-Sri-Lanka/56-731596)

United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet





United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet on Friday, introducing the report on Sri Lanka, said the Government should take further steps to address the fundamental problems with the Prevention of Terrorism Act and undertake deeper legal, institutional and security sector reforms that were critically needed to put an end to impunity and prevent any reoccurrence of past violations. Victims and their families continued to be denied truth and justice.

“There was deep concern about the concentration of civilian positions in the hands of military officials, some of them implicated in serious allegations of human rights violations.  The Council should pursue alternative strategies to advance accountability at the international level,” she said.

Sri Lanka, speaking as the country concerned, said the resolution was directly contrary to the Council’s founding principles of impartiality, objectivity and non-selectivity.  There were serious anomalies and problems with the report.  It had an intolerably intrusive character and there was a clear element of discrimination within it. This in itself struck at the root of the foundations of the United Nations system.

It was deeply regretted that numerous unsubstantiated allegations had found their way into the report.  The international community should join Sri Lanka on a footing of mutual respect to face the challenges ahead.

In the ensuing debate, speakers said Sri Lanka should ensure a safe democratic space, and strong independent judicial institutions.  The erosion of democratic institutions and the lack of accountability for past human rights violations undermined progress.  The Government had taken the first steps to undertake reforms but there was a long road ahead.

More comprehensive reforms were needed to allow civil society to operate freely and safely and to bring terrorism legislation in line with international norms and standards.  Ensuring accountability and justice for survivors was essential for maintaining peace and ensuring reconciliation.

Some speakers said that reports should be based on reliable, objective and neutral observation.  The development of reports should be done with constructive cooperation with the concerned country.  When dealing with human rights situations, the Council should retain a non-biased, non-selective and non-hypocritical point of view.

Speaking this afternoon on the situation in Eritrea were the European Union, Iceland on behalf of the Nordic-Baltic countries, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Philippines, France, Djibouti, Luxembourg, Venezuela, China, Cuba, Ethiopia, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Russian Federation, Benin, Australia, Sudan, Ireland, Belarus, United States, Belgium, United Kingdom, Canada, Somalia, Syria, Iran and South Sudan.

Also speaking were the following non-governmental organisations: Christian Solidarity Worldwide, Eastern Horn of Africa: Human Rights Defenders Project, Civicus World Alliance for Citizen Participation, Amnesty International, Advocates for Human Rights, and UN Watch.

Speaking on Sri Lanka were the European Union, Netherlands on behalf of the Benelux countries, Norway on behalf of the Nordic-Baltic countries, United Kingdom on behalf of the Sri Lanka Core Group, Saudi Arabia on behalf of the Gulf Cooperation Council, Germany, Egypt, Montenegro, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Canada, Philippines, Nepal, Kenya, India and France.

Speakers said Sri Lanka should ensure a safe democratic space and strong independent judicial institutions.  The erosion of democratic institutions and the lack of accountability for past human rights violations was undermining progress. The building of a prosperous State for all Sri Lankans was required, including all minorities.

The Government had taken the first steps to undertake reforms, but there was a long road ahead.  There was also concern for political prisoners still in custody, and concern that the proposed changes were not sufficient to address human rights concerns.  There should be freedom of speech for journalists and those in minority communities, as well as non-governmental organisations.

The Government should ensure the independence and effectiveness of human rights institutions, and encourage proper investigation of reports of deaths in police custody.  There should be full implementation of Council resolution 46/1.

More comprehensive reforms were needed to allow civil society to operate freely and safely, and to bring terrorism legislation in line with international norms and standards.  The rights of religious minorities should be protected.  More inclusive governance was needed in Sri Lanka: a safe and open space should be maintained, even for dissent.  Ensuring accountability and justice for survivors was essential for maintaining peace and ensuring reconciliation.

A more comprehensive and deeper reform agenda was required to ensure that future violations could not occur.  The Government should fully consider the numerous and consecutive recommendations made by various United Nations mechanisms and organisations.  The lack of domestic progress in accountability and the reconciliation process required further commitment by the Government.  The human rights situation could degrade further if steps were not taken to address the issues of the past.

Some speakers said that reports should be based on reliable, objective and neutral observation.  The development of reports should be done with constructive cooperation with the concerned country.  When dealing with human rights situations, the Council should retain a non-biased, non-selective and non-hypocritical point of view.

The community of nations should support in good faith any steps taken towards reconciliation in the country, and encourage genuine dialogue in an impartial manner, standing against selectivity, politicisation and double standards.  The Human Rights Council should support Sri Lanka in order to achieve its priorities for its domestic development in the context of its own needs.

## [02:17] Core Group notes Sri Lanka’s progress in addressing key reforms limited

[https://www.ft.lk/news/Core-Group-notes-Sri-Lanka-s-progress-in-addressing-key-reforms-limited/56-731595](https://www.ft.lk/news/Core-Group-notes-Sri-Lanka-s-progress-in-addressing-key-reforms-limited/56-731595)

The Core Group on Sri Lanka while acknowledging first steps by Sri Lanka to address key reforms, noted that progress since Council resolution 46/1 is limited.

Issuing a statement on Friday at the 49th session of the UN Human Rights Council, the Sri Lanka Core Group comprising Canada, Germany, North Macedonia, Malawi, Montenegro, the United Kingdom and the United States said, in particular, slow progress by the Office of Missing Persons in fully investigating cases since the release of the preliminary list of missing persons is troubling.

“Our concerns over surveillance and intimidation of civil society persist and detentions, threats and intimidation of journalists and human rights defenders continue. It is crucial that civic space remains open.”

The Core Group welcomed the releases on bail of Ahnaf Jazeem and Hejaaz Hizbullah, but said the proposed changes to the PTA are very limited and our longstanding concerns remain.

“The Core Group on Sri Lanka today while recognising the challenges the island nation is facing due to the COVID-19 pandemic, continued to express concern about current human rights developments in Sri Lanka and stressed the importance of a comprehensive reconciliation and accountability process.”

The Core Group noted that new ‘One Country One Law’ taskforce risks undermining Sri Lanka’s pluralist society and urged Sri Lanka to ensure that this taskforce’s work is inclusive and non-discriminatory.

“We call for full cooperation with the High Commissioner and remain ready to support the Government on the implementation of resolution 46/1,” the Core Group said.

## [02:14] Sri Lanka exposes UNHRC’s double standards and discrimination

[https://www.ft.lk/news/Sri-Lanka-exposes-UNHRC-s-double-standards-and-discrimination/56-731594](https://www.ft.lk/news/Sri-Lanka-exposes-UNHRC-s-double-standards-and-discrimination/56-731594)

Foreign Minister Prof. G.L. Peiris delivers Sri Lanka’s statement at interactive dialogue on the OHCHR report on Sri Lanka at the 49th session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva on Friday















Sri Lanka on Friday alleged double standards and discrimination on the part of the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) whilst it expressed concerns over numerous instances of unsubstantiated allegations on the part of the latter.

This view was expressed by Foreign Minister Prof. G.L. Peiris in his statement during the interactive dialogue on the OHCHR report on Sri Lanka at the 49th session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva.

Following is the full statement by Sri Lanka.

The Resolution 46/1 on Sri Lanka was adopted by a divided vote in this Council. Sri Lanka and other Member States opposed this resolution in fundamental disagreement with its deeply flawed procedure and unacceptable content, in particular its OP para 6 regarding a so-called evidence-gathering mechanism. The Resolution was directly contrary to the Council’s founding principles of impartiality, objectivity and non-selectivity. It went well beyond the mandate that Member States conferred on it by UNGA Resolution 60/251. I have stated Sri Lanka’s views on this matter to this Council on 1 March. We also submitted in a timely manner our comments on the High Commissioner’s report. We note with regret that the Secretariat failed to publish this simultaneously with the High Commissioner’s written update.

Despite our rejection of the resolution, we will continue our voluntary international undertakings on human rights and engage with the United Nations, including with this Council. As stated by President Gotabaya Rajapaksa of Sri Lanka to our Parliament on 18 January 2022, “We are a nation that respects international laws and conventions”. We have regularly shared our progress and challenges in a candid and open exchange with this Council and other relevant organs of the United Nations system.

We are convinced that there are serious anomalies and weaknesses in the report presented to this Council by the High Commissioner. The fundamental deficiency is its intolerably intrusive character, impinging as it does on core functions and responsibilities of organs of the Sri Lankan State, overwhelmingly mandated by the people of our country at three successive elections.

There is, as well, a clearly discernible element of discrimination, in that the Council would certainly not take it upon itself to embark on a similar inquisitorial procedure in respect of other Member States. This, in itself, strikes at the very root of the foundations of the United Nations system. The issue of uniformity and consistency of standards applied by the High Commissioner to Member States, irrespective of their size and influence, and in steadfast conformity with the essential principle relating to the sovereign equality of all members of the United Nations fraternity, is cynically transgressed in several portions of this report.

To our minds, this is particularly disturbing because the strength and prestige of the United Nations, and especially the Human Rights Council, derive from the widespread regard of the international community, as a whole, for the moral and ethical basis underpinning the attitudes of the Council. We fervently believe that it is vitally important to retain this confidence undiminished, especially having regard to the fate of the Human Rights Commission, the predecessor of this Council. It is a matter for deep regret that numerous instances of unsubstantiated allegations and superficial conclusions insensitive to the complexity of ground situations have found their way into the report. We have commented on these in extensive detail in our written response.

We are dismayed by the High Commissioner’s unwarranted onslaught on seminal institutions of our country which function under the aegis of Sri Lanka’s Constitution and legal system, emanating from a rich and varied cultural heritage, and are subject to stringent review processes which form an integral part of our tried and tested laws.

There is also the question of use of stringently limited resources in such a manner as to achieve optimal benefit for all of humanity at a time of unprecedented crisis. The colossal expenditure of millions of dollars in a partisan and specifically targeted pursuit of Sri Lanka is hardly consonant with this obvious imperative. It seems to us a great pity that the report shows scant regard for these considerations which appear to a wide swath of nations to be crucially important at this time.

The Government of Sri Lanka is firmly resolved to maintain the security and stability that we have restored for our people and ensure sustainable progress in an equitable manner. My country reaches out to the international community with the sincere exhortation to join us as partners on a footing of equality and mutual respect to face the challenges ahead.

## [02:14] First-ever high level Omani business delegation in town

[https://www.ft.lk/business/First-ever-high-level-Omani-business-delegation-in-town/34-731593](https://www.ft.lk/business/First-ever-high-level-Omani-business-delegation-in-town/34-731593)

The first ever high level 17 member Omani business delegation is in town to promote bilateral trade and investments.

The delegation comprises members of the Oman Chamber of Commerce and Industry (OCCI) and is led by its Chairman Eng. Redha Bin Juma Al Saleh. The visit is being coordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Sri Lanka and the State Ministry of Regional Cooperation in collaboration with the Embassy of Sri Lanka in Oman.

The members of the delegation include OCCI Board member and the Committee on Services and Information Technology Chairman Ali Hamdan AlAjmi,  Board member and the South A Sharqia Governorate Chairman Anwar Hamed Said Al Sinani, Chairpersons and CEOs of leading Omani private sector companies His Highness Khalid Mohamed Salim AlSaeed. Ambassador of Sri Lanka to the Sultanate of Oman Ameer Ajwad is accompanying the high-level delegation during their meetings in Sri Lanka.

The purpose of the visit is to explore and enhance trade and investment opportunities between Sri Lanka and the Sultanate of Oman. The visit is envisaged to open a new chapter for private sector cooperation between the two countries.

The visiting delegation represents product lines such as construction, valuations, consultancy, medical services, food supply, advertising services, manufacturing of medical equipment, water distillery units, upholstery, spare parts, tyres, vegetables and fruits, perfume and watches, food supply, restaurants, whole sales, readymade garments, building material, hardware, tools and equipment, electrical equipment, paints, dry fruit and sweet, recruiting, supply of manpower, legal translations, interpretation, TV translation, editing and submitting, remote translation, conference management, remote conference management, training (languages and translating), film and TV production and event organising etc.

The schedule of the delegation includes calls on Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa, Trade Minister Bandula Gunawardena, Labour Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva and State Minister of Regional Cooperation Tharaka Balasuriya.

The National Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka (NCCSL) will hold a business forum with the participation of the visiting Omani business delegation on Monday 07 March from 2.30 p.m. at the National Chamber Auditorium, Colombo 10, followed by B2B meetings with the potential Sri Lankan counterparts.

Meetings with the Sri Lanka Export Development Board (EDB) Chairperson, the Sri Lanka Association for Software and Services Companies (SLASSCOM) President, Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Chairman and the NCCSL President are also scheduled.

The delegation will also undertake field visits to the Colombo Port City, Tea Packing Centre, Apparel Factory at Katunayake Free Trade Zone and a Food company during their visit.  The NCCSL virtually signed a MoU with the OCCI on 28 June 2021 to enhance bilateral trade and investment opportunities between the two countries.

## [02:11] New US Ambassador calls on PM; commits to boost ties with SL

[https://www.ft.lk/news/New-US-Ambassador-calls-on-PM-commits-to-boost-ties-with-SL/56-731592](https://www.ft.lk/news/New-US-Ambassador-calls-on-PM-commits-to-boost-ties-with-SL/56-731592)

New United States Ambassador to Sri Lanka Julie J. Chung called on Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa at Temple Trees on Friday for the first time since assuming duties.

The new US Ambassador emphasised that she was seeking to further strengthen the existing political, social and economic ties with Sri Lanka, the Prime Minister’s Office said.

Ambassador Chung said that the United States will help keep the Sri Lankan economy strong in the face of the COVID -19 pandemic and also expressed confidence that the US would assist in the development of Sri Lanka’s energy and tourism sectors.

The Premier assured that the Government of Sri Lanka will work to maintain the existing relations between the United States and Sri Lanka. He offered congratulations and best wishes to Chung for success in her new post.

Central Bank Governor Nivard Cabraal, State Minister Tharaka Balasuriya, and Secretary to the Prime Minister Anura Dissanayake were also present on the occasion.

## [00:03] Inequality and fallacies in the law - EDITORIAL

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/Inequality-and-fallacies-in-the-law-EDITORIAL/172-232445](https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/Inequality-and-fallacies-in-the-law-EDITORIAL/172-232445)

‘Equality before law means, that among equals the law should be equal and should be equally administered, that like should be treated alike. Sadly this description is not always followed in international politics or even in domestic and day-to-day affairs.

The Palestinians as a group are among the biggest victims of inequality. Palestine, or what little was left of it after that country was divided, has been subject to numerous invasions by the government of the state of Israel. Yet the UN has not condemned Israel for its invasion of a sovereign member state.

A UN report of March 26, 2009 found Israel guilty of using white phosphorus munitions in the air over populated areas in Palestine, killing and injuring civilians, and damaging civilian structures, including a school, a market, a humanitarian aid warehouse and a hospital between December 27, 2008 to January 18, 2009.



Israel has as yet not been charged before the ICC for War Crimes or, Crimes against Humanity. Whereas today the ICC is investigating as to whether Russia could be charged with committing War Crimes and/or Crimes Against Humanity for invading Ukraine!!!.

Palestinians who have taken up arms to combat Israeli occupation are accused of terrorism, while in Ukraine civillians taking up arms against invading Russian troops are praised as heroes and patriots.



In India, one of the most distinctive forms of social inequity come within the spheres of gender and caste, where, people coming from the marginalized sections are directly impacted in terms of opportunities, access to essential utilities, and their treatment by the very forces supposed to uphold the law

In our own country too, we see numerous instances of inequality before the law. For instance way back in 1962 members of the armed forces attempted a coup-de-tat. All were found guilty in local courts of law. They were sentenced to serve terms of imprisonment.



Those who took part in the coup, were held at the magazine prison and released on appeal to by Britain’s Privy Council on a technicality. Even though they were found to be guilty of attempting to overthrow the elected government of the country, all the coup members from wealthy backgrounds, subsequently served at the highest levels of government departments after a change in government.

By comparison, many of the insurgents of the JVP uprising of 1971 were held in limestone islands off the coast of Trincomalee. Many captives claimed they had little or no clothing during their incarceration.



Fast forward to 2015, a time when presidential elections were held two years before time in January 2015. In the run-up to the election, the then opposition alleged the president and his family had robbed the country of millions of dollars. They promised the electorate to bring the culprits to book and promised a clean government if elected to power.

At the polls, the then President - Mahinda Rajapaksa - under whose mandate the 30-year war against terrorism was successfully brought to an end was defeated.  A new president took power. Though the new government for the course of its tenure continually made reference to frauds committed by the ex-president, no charges were ever framed against him.  Meanwhile, within a month the new government’s installation, the opposition under Mahinda Rajapaksa were hinting at a huge fraud at the country’s Central Bank - a bond scam.

The bond scandal was a financial laundering scam which took place in February 2015. It caused huge losses of more than US$ 11 million to the country and is regarded as the largest reported financial scam in the country.



It proved to be a major blow to the newly-elected government led by ex-president Maithripala Sirisena and his Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe. The new regime attempted to cover up the scam and dragged its feet on charging ex- government leaders of corruption. Only a few public servants were harassed.

Weakened by the scandal and rifts between the president and his premier. The government was rightfully drubbed at the presidential election of 2019, which saw former President Mahinda Rajapaksa’s brother - Gotabaya Rajapaksa - elected President.



The new government charged a number of individuals including the ex-Finance Minister, the then Central Bank Governor, the heads of a few private companies and a few others. An Interpol red notice was issued on the ex-Governor of the Central Bank who fled the country. He was tried in absentia. On March 4 this year, the accused were cleared.   The public is beginning to believe politicians are playing a game of ‘you scratch my back, I’ll scratch yours.’

The fallout - where the people beginning to lose faith in the system of justice itself.

## [00:02] Repealing PTA

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/Repealing-PTA/172-232444](https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/Repealing-PTA/172-232444)

People are seen placing their signatures during a campaign to abolish the proposed PTA



I often reflect on the tumultuous years of the late 1970s and the paths not taken that may have determined a different future for our country. Emergency rule and then the enactment of the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) in 1979 are unforgettable times of my childhood in Jaffna. It was perhaps the excitement of the solidarity visit of many progressives from the South including the visionary Jesuit Socialist Rev. Fr. Paul Casperz as repression mounted along with the PTA, and the formation of the Jaffna branch of the Movement for Inter-Racial Justice and Equality (MIRJE) of which my father became the founding chair. The disquiet memories as a school boy, eaves dropping on the horrifying stories of abductions, detentions and torture, which were being documented by my father and his fellow human rights activists, left in me a long antipathy towards the PTA and more broadly state repression.



As I grew up and in conversations with my father, I often wondered what our past would have been if the JR Jayawardena regime of that era had not chosen the path of repression in the face of rising militancy of Tamil youth. Would our history been different and could we have avoided the civil war if our political leaders had addressed the problems politically and changed the social consciousness in our country? In any event, the reprehensible use of emergency powers and the PTA through the long protracted war led to the hope that the PTA will be repealed after the war. However, that was not to be as the Rajapaksa regime decided on greater militarization and securitization in the post-war years.





"Our laws and for that matter the legal grounding of our modern state  have always been influenced by international developments from the times  of colonial rule to copying the PTA after it was enacted by the British in 1974 to address the problems in Northern Ireland"





This is my entry point into the current campaign launched by parliamentarian M. A. Sumanthiran to repeal the PTA. It is refreshing to see political actors, religious leaders and most importantly the people from different quarters of the country signing onto this campaign. And as this important campaign gains momentum, I address below some of the challenges of not just repealing the PTA from the law books but also purging from our social consciousness the dangerous ideas of the expediency and efficacy of anti-terror laws.

International outlook

Our laws and for that matter the legal grounding of our modern state have always been influenced by international developments from the times of colonial rule to copying the PTA after it was enacted by the British in 1974 to address the problems in Northern Ireland. Then two decades ago, the US-led “war on terror” after the attacks of September 11, 2001 proliferated anti-terror laws all around the world, and even pushed for resolutions in the UN legitimizing such repressive

legal regimes.



This historical context is important, because the current campaign to repeal the PTA is linked to the international pressure by the European Union and the UNHRC to reform the PTA. However, given the ubiquity of anti-terror laws in our age, these international actors are unlikely and lack the legitimacy to call for a complete repeal of the PTA. My point is that while international pressures and influence are part of our political realities, the campaign to repeal the PTA has to be on a solid domestic footing to achieve its goal.

In this context, an important recent assertion, both the report by UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Bachelet and a joint statement by a number of UN Special Rapporteurs, calls for an immediate moratorium on the use of the PTA in Sri Lanka and the release of all those unjustly detained under this abusive law. Such a suspension of the PTA is a starting point, but it should not just lead to the reform of the PTA, rather its complete repeal given the history of our experience with the workings of such extraordinary laws.

Social consciousness



The history of modern states has been one of using martial laws, emergency powers, anti-terror laws and for that matter criminal laws, to both bring about order in society and towards unjust political ends. In other words, liberal democracies are fragile and the structure of their development itself has been constituted by both the “rule of law” and its exceptions providing for tremendous abuse of power.



The critical legal scholar Nasser Hussain in his book, ‘The Jurisprudence of Emergency: Colonialism and the Rule of Law’ has pointed out the troubling character of liberal order, where law, violence and order are constituted in the making of our modern states. He draws on political theorist Partha Chatterjee’s idea of the “rule of colonial difference” to articulate how martial laws and for that matter emergency laws are entrenched into the liberal order through social and political discourses and processes of “othering”. In the case of Sri Lanka, this legacy is all the more apparent when we consider the fact that emergency rule and the PTA have both been in force for more than half the period of our postcolonial history; including through the “othering” of minorities. Furthermore, those in power justify such anti-terror laws not just during times of armed conflict, but also as needed for our future security from a variety of threats. Indeed, those struggling for political changes and those opposed to dispossessing development policies can also be targeted.





"In the case of Sri Lanka, this legacy is all the more apparent when we consider the fact that emergency rule and the PTA have both been in force for more than half the period of our postcolonial history"





The point I want to draw from such theorisation is that the abuse of state power are not limited to the enactment of exceptional laws, and the containment of such state power cannot be through legal changes alone. The debates and struggles to address the abuse of state power and the social consciousness that emerges in opposing such state power – including draconian laws – are even more important. I have heard from Indian intellectuals that Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s attempt in the 1970s to undermine electoral democracy through a state of emergency led to such tremendous societal opposition that it is unlikely any regime in the future will attempt such a strategy of using emergency rule to continue in power. Similarly, despite all the shortcomings of our political culture, I believe the reason that our people never fell for a military coup and consistently changed powerful regimes considered to be invincible, is a reflection of the democratic ethos deeply etched into our social consciousness.



The call of the hour is for intellectuals to join the people and take up the ideological struggle against anti-terror laws. While we must struggle for the repeal of the PTA, we must also work to purge the possibility of the return of anti-terror laws from our national political consciousness. The people’s rejection of the PTA should be overwhelmingly clear to the current and future regimes in power.

## [00:01] SVB spearheads an island-wide support system to eliminate violence against women - Hirunika Premachandra

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/SVB-spearheads-an-island-wide-support-system-to-eliminate-violence-against-women-Hirunika-Premachandra/231-232443](https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/SVB-spearheads-an-island-wide-support-system-to-eliminate-violence-against-women-Hirunika-Premachandra/231-232443)

"Stemming from this campaign, we have been proactively taking the issue of eliminating violence against women to our grassroots level members in the periphery. There is now a consciousness on this topic among women at grassroots level and they are encouraged to speak out and seek redress when victimized"





The Samagi Vanitha Balawegaya (SVB), the women’s wing of Samagi Jana Balawegaya has spearheaded several initiatives to address issues faced by women and children at grassroots level. The Sakwala programme for instance, aims to empower students and teachers from underprivileged schools with modern technology. In view of International Women’s Day, SVB’s National Organizer Hirunika Premachandra spoke about initiatives taken by SJB women politicians to address issues of violence and harassment faced by women, interventions by SVB at grassroots level to promote gender equality.

The Excerpts:

Q   Incidents of child abuse and violence against women have escalated over the past few months. What are the interventions that have been taken by women politicians in this regard?

It has been proven that incidents of abuse among women and children have increased with the lockdown and work at home practices with the new normal. I cannot speak about women politicians in general in Sri Lanka. I will speak of women politicians at local and national level in the SJB- the largest opposition party in Sri Lanka.

Our leader, Sajith Premadasa is extremely gender sensitive and deeply committed towards gender equality. SJB women’s wing, the Samagi Vanitha Balawegaya, adopts a “bottom up” approach in addressing gender based violence and violence against children. Our women leaders at grassroots level who function through our network of branches island wide collaborate with local and national level women politicians. They are aware of cases of violence and provide safe space and assistance to victims to seek redress. They bring these cases to the attention of counsellors, health care workers and lawyers from the SJB lawyers association as needed. We have lawyers attached to all the district courts in Sri Lanka. They provide legal assistance as required.

Q   Why don’t we see the elected women politicians talking about these matters in Parliament?

Unfortunately, the percentage of women politicians in the national parliament is very low. Hence the time allocated to women politicians in the parliamentary proceedings is limited.

When I was a member of parliament, I used the limited time available and was very vocal in bringing up in parliament, issues relating to women. For example, I proposed that every school should have a qualified counsellor or even a teacher should be trained to provide professional counselling to students in need of counselling. I am happy to record that this recommendation was accepted and implemented by the Ministry of Education. I also took up the issue of harassment of women using public transport and also on the road. I advocated that a special desk should be established in each police station to cater exclusively to women who are subject to such harassment. I also proposed that laws should be brought in to take action against media channels and publications that disseminate media messages that insults and degrades women.

SJB women parliamentary representatives, Thalatha Athukorale and Rohini Kaviratne speak on behalf of women as often as possible. SJB which is a new political party, has undertaken to provide 25% quota of nominations to women for the forthcoming local and provincial council election. We expect greater focus on women’s issue when the percentage of women in local and national political platforms increases.





"Our leader, Sajith Premadasa is extremely gender sensitive and deeply committed towards gender equality. SJB women’s wing, the Samagi Vanitha Balawegaya, adopts a “bottom up” approach in addressing gender based violence and violence against children"





Q   What are the initiatives taken by SVB to address these matters at the grassroots level?

Demonstrating its commitment to uplifting the status of women in Sri Lanka, SJB made history as a political party by implementing an intensive programme for 16 days on the occasion of the international day for the elimination of violence against women, starting from November 25, 2021.

The programme was spearheaded by SVB under the theme “Orange the World: End violence against Women”. Women from all walks of life participated actively in this memorable programme. Highlights were, a media briefing, island - wide protests and demonstrations, street dramas focusing on various aspects of violence, different women’s stakeholder groups visiting the party office each day and raising awareness on this theme and disseminating daily tri-lingual social messages reinforcing the theme. SJB pledged its commitment to end violence against women by illuminating the facade of the party headquarters with orange hued lights since orange was the colour used for the global campaign.

Stemming from this campaign, we have been proactively taking the issue of eliminating violence against women to our grassroots level members in the periphery. There is now a consciousness on this topic among women at grassroots level and they are encouraged to speak out and seek redress when victimized.

Q   Could you share some success stories as a result of these initiatives?

We do not bring these cases to the public arena and work on a low-key maintaining anonymity of the victims and confidentiality. However, what I can say is that in general, our support system is available island-wide and more and more women are reaching out to us. Our volunteers and legal team are quietly playing a huge role in this context.





"For men in society, I must say that we are happy that there are many progressive men who are strong advocates of equality in Sri Lanka today. But for those men who do not respect this noble principle and resort to violence against women, remember your own mother, wife, daughter and sister"





Q   Every year, during Women’s day celebrations, there are programmes and initiatives taken by various civil society organizations and even at political level. But they don’t sustain for long. How will you ensure sustainability in these initiatives?

As SJB is a new party, we celebrated UN women’s day for the first time last year. We organized an island wide art competition on the theme “End period poverty”. There was overwhelming response to this event and discourse on this important topic was generated. As our structure has been consolidated and our reach expanded significantly after this land mark event, the discourse on the need to end period poverty continues at various levels, starting from the bottom. Our focus for international women’s day 2022 is connected with the SJB Sakwala programme



SJB is making a significant impact in national development. The programme Sakwala, pursues the vision of our leader, Sajith Premadasa to empower students and teachers from underprivileged schools to access information, communication technology and digital learning through ‘smart class rooms’ and IT digital learning labs. Students from Grade 6-12 are benefitting from this programme. Internet connectivity is being provided and IT teachers are being trained. Within the next 3 years we will be equipping 200 schools island-wide and creating a network of empowered students through “Sakwala Clubs”.

As such, our women’s day initiatives focus on empowering girls with education, especially IT skills and IT related facilities. SJB is deeply committed to providing equal opportunities to women and ensuring an enabling environment for women to pursue careers in IT or any other areas of their choice





"I advocated that a special desk should be established in each police station to cater exclusively to women who are subject to such harassment. I also proposed that laws should be brought in to take action against media channels and publications that disseminate media messages that insults and degrades women"





Q   Women empowerment does not happen in unsafe and insecure environments. Shouldn’t all stakeholders including the state ministry, politicians both men and women, law enforcement authorities etc, get together in this situation and work for a common objective of ending all forms of abuse against women and children?

I agree wholeheartedly with your statement. SJB believes in “consultation, compromise and consensus”- as was often reminded by late President Ranasinghe Premadasa. We need to respect one another’s differences and work together for the common good of our country. I am encouraged by the firm commitment and sensitivity of our leader, Sajith Premadasa towards gender equality. I have seen him demonstrate his commitment through action and just not mere talk. I am convinced that under his leadership, women will be able to play a catalytic role in ensuring a sustainable tomorrow for Sri Lanka.

Q   Your message to society on this Women’s Day....

My message to all Sri Lankan society, especially women, young women and girls – don’t let the glass ceiling stop you. Be strong. Be courageous. Be ambitious. Reach out for your dreams. With the right attitude, you can reach the pinnacle.

For men, I must say that we are happy that there are many progressive men who are strong advocates of equality in Sri Lanka today. But for those men who do not respect this noble principle and resort to violence against women, remember your own mother, wife, daughter and sister. Pay attention to the United Nation’s Women’s Day theme this year : “Gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow”. Be a partner in putting this into practice to bring about a bright and sustainable tomorrow for Sri Lanka.