# 2022-03-08

*24 news articles*

## [04:07] Lustre Designs makes history as first Lankan company to win at Jewellery World Awards

[https://www.ft.lk/business/Lustre-Designs-makes-history-as-first-Lankan-company-to-win-at-Jewellery-World-Awards/34-731666](https://www.ft.lk/business/Lustre-Designs-makes-history-as-first-Lankan-company-to-win-at-Jewellery-World-Awards/34-731666)

Lustre Designs Corporation Founder and CEO Vindya Perera receiving the award





Lustre Designs Corporation, Sri Lanka’s finest custom gem cutting lapidary for precious and semi-precious gemstone cuts, has made history by becoming the first Sri Lankan company to win an award at the prestigious Jewellery World Awards.

The company was able to outshine several global industry leaders to win the Gold Award under the category “Outstanding Small Enterprise of the Year (50 full-time employees and below)”.

Established in 2012, and formerly known as the JNA Awards, the Jewellery World Awards is an annual programme that covers businesses from mine-to-market in the international jewellery industry and receives entries from all over the world. Following an independent, robust, transparent and intellectually rigorous judging process outstanding individuals and companies that make significant contributions and have made a positive impact in the world of jewellery and gemstones are recognised.

The brainchild of award-winning young female entrepreneur Vindya Perera, Lustre Designs Corporation is the first platform in Sri Lanka to showcase the work of young and talented lapidarists with their uniquely thought-out gem faceting techniques that reflect in the beautifully designed custom-cut precious and semi-precious stones.

A certified gemmologist at the National Gem and Jewellery Authority Sri Lanka who entered the world of gem and jewellery at a young age, Vindya has worked relentlessly over the years to empower the industry by showcasing the raw talent possessed by the novice lapidary artists at Lustre Designs. The craftsmanship of the Sri Lankan lapidary artist which is celebrated around the globe has been elevated with Vindya’s creative flair which she has shared and instilled amongst the artisans of the Lustre family.

On the achievement Lustre Designs Corporation Founder and CEO Vindya Perera said: “We are thrilled to have made history by becoming the first Sri Lankan company to win an award at the prestigious Jewellery World Awards. This underscores the fact that our work is of international standards and augers well for our future plans to make a greater impact in the international market.”

“At Lustre, we strive to empower the novice Sri Lankan lapidary artists by inspiring their creative energy to bring forth the most exquisite and unconventional gem designs, in order to revolutionise the current gem and jewellery industry of Sri Lanka. The uniquely faceted gems we produce encompass the resplendent beauty of natural gemstones of Sri Lanka, while adding value to them with extraordinary designs and faceting techniques,” Perera added.

Lustre Designs recently took Sri Lanka’s gem and jewellery creations to international audiences by participating in Expo 2020 Dubai. The Expo 2020 is one of the largest international exhibitions in the world and will be held in Dubai till 31 March 2022. Lustre Designs Corporation was part of a trade exhibition organised by the National Chamber of Exporters of Sri Lanka (NCE), the exclusive chamber representing Sri Lankan exporters.

Lustre Designs Corporation has consistently been recognised with local and international awards for its continued excellence in its field. Other awards won in recent years include Best Lapidary Art 2019 award at Jewels 2019 Gem and Jewellery Trade Exhibition and Competition, Gold and Silver Awards at the NCE Export Awards, CNCI Excellence National Bronze Award and CNCI Excellence Provincial Silver Award 2020.

## [04:06] International author to speak on climate crisis, innovation, and business

[https://www.ft.lk/business/International-author-to-speak-on-climate-crisis-innovation-and-business/34-731664](https://www.ft.lk/business/International-author-to-speak-on-climate-crisis-innovation-and-business/34-731664)

Simon Mundy

















Anushka Wijesinha









Globally-acclaimed author of the book ‘Race for Tomorrow’, Simon Mundy, will speak to a Sri Lankan audience for the first time this Wednesday (9) and share his insights from the front lines of the climate crisis.

Simon is the Editor of the Financial Time’s award-winning Moral Money platform, and took two years writing a book on survival, innovation, and profit amidst the climate crisis.

During this session hosted by the Centre for a Smart Future (CSF) – an interdisciplinary think tank on public policy – and Good Life X, Simon will take the audience on his journey meeting people across 26 countries in six continents – from the Congolese cobalt miners risking their lives to meet the surging demand for electric cars, to a startup in Iceland sucking CO2 from the air and turning it into underground stone. The conversation will focus not only on the challenges for survival but also on economic solutions and innovation to overcome these, to shape a smarter future.

CSF Co-Founder and lead moderator of the event, Anushka Wijesinha said: “It is a privilege to have someone like Simon conduct this session with us, and take us through this issue from the eyes of a journalist. He is now a leading voice on this issue and has engaged in several high-level meetings during COP26 last year. The event is sure to expand our world view of climate change impacts, and possible solutions.”

Sunela Jayawardena, renowned environmental architect and member of CSF’s Global Advisory Council, will chair the event, and Good Life X CEO Randhula de Silva and CSF Visiting Fellow Shayani Weeresinghe will join as guest moderators.

The Colombo Urban Lab, Parrotfish Collective, Biodiversity Sri Lanka, Good Market, and Economynext are outreach partners for the event. To register for the event (9 March, 6:30-7:30 p.m. IST), visit bit.ly/simonmundyevent or catch it on Facebook Live on the Centre’s Facebook page – facebook.com/csfasia. To know more, email connect@csf-asia.org.

## [04:06] Dialog Axiata powers ‘Aya’ national empowerment initiative on Women’s Day

[https://www.ft.lk/business/Dialog-Axiata-powers-Aya-national-empowerment-initiative-on-Women-s-Day/34-731665](https://www.ft.lk/business/Dialog-Axiata-powers-Aya-national-empowerment-initiative-on-Women-s-Day/34-731665)

State Ministry of Women and Child Development, Pre-Schools and Primary Education, School Infrastructure and Education Services State Secretary K.M.S.D. Jayasekera (left) receiving the sponsorship from Dialog Axiata Group Chief Marketing Officer Amali Nanayakkara. State Ministry’s Women’s Bureau Director C.M. Upasena and additional Secretary N.H.M.W.W. Herath are also present





Furthering its commitment to fostering gender equality and breaking the bias, Dialog Axiata PLC, Sri Lanka’s premier connectivity provider, powered ‘Aya’, a National-level empowerment and development initiative celebrating International Women’s Day, organised by the State Ministry of Women and Child Development, Pre-Schools and Primary Education, School Infrastructure and Education Services.

‘Aya’ is a women-centric initiative kickstarting on 8 March at the Bandaranaike Memorial International Conference Hall (BMICH) in Colombo where it will carry on till 7 April  to be concluded in the Monaragala district.

Through a month-long series of marketplaces, panel discussions, recognition ceremonies, awareness workshops and much more, ‘Aya’ will tackle a range of topics, give avenues and platforms for the growth of women entrepreneurs, create awareness of gender inequalities in society, and bring together men, women, and children to #BreakTheBias by engaging them in discussions that will elevate the visibility of women and forge a path for their empowerment. This initiative will journey across Sri Lanka, covering a range of districts, including Anuradhapura, Nuwara Eliya, Kalutara, Puttalam, Gampaha, Mannar, and Kegalle.

State Ministry of Women and Child Development, Pre-Schools and Primary Education, School Infrastructure and Education Services State Secretary K.M.S.D. Jayasekera said: “We are pleased to initiate ‘Aya’, a month-long empowerment and development program in line with this year’s International Women’s Day theme - #BreakTheBias. Women are the architects of our society…empowering them empowers the nation.  We are grateful to Dialog Axiata for joining hands with us and supporting this national endeavour of enabling ‘gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow’ in line with the United Nation’s theme for International Women’s Day.”

Dialog remains committed to providing women the supportive platforms needed to succeed in all their endeavours.

Accordingly, in addition to powering the event, Dialog will be going a step further and extending the support and expertise of its women-centric platforms, including ‘Yeheli.lk/Thozhi.lk’, Sri Lanka’s only anonymous, personalised and interactive advisory service for individuals to connect with qualified virtual advisors and ‘IdeaMart for Women’, a female entrepreneurship and empowerment program specifically designed to promote digital entrepreneurship and improve technical skills.

Furthermore, ‘Diriya.lk’, which is a one-stop hub for Sri Lankan entrepreneurs to learn, network and grow by receiving knowledge and expertise from industry specialists will also be featured during this program.

Dialog is also the proud sponsor of the Women’s National Cricket Team of Sri Lanka as well as the Sri Lanka National Netball, Senior Netball, and Junior Netball Teams. The company has close ties with the Dialog National and Junior National Netball Championship and is working together with its brand ambassadors, Umaria Sinhawansa, Senali Fonseka, Madhuvy Vaithialingam and Chamari Atapattu to create a culture of female empowerment and inclusivity across its footprint.

More information on ‘Aya’ can be accessed via - http://www.childwomenmin.gov.lk/

## [04:05] BCS Sri Lanka Section elects new leadership for 2022/23

[https://www.ft.lk/business/BCS-Sri-Lanka-Section-elects-new-leadership-for-2022-23/34-731663](https://www.ft.lk/business/BCS-Sri-Lanka-Section-elects-new-leadership-for-2022-23/34-731663)

BCS -The Chartered Institute for IT Sri Lanka Section elected Chairman Vajeendra S. Kandegamage













The British Computer Society (BCS) - The Chartered Institute for IT (Sri Lanka Section) elected its new leadership for the year 2022/23 at the Annual General Meeting held virtually recently.

The new Sri Lanka leadership team consists of the Executive Committee led by Chairman Vajeendra S. Kandegamage, the Secretary Prof. Lasith Gunawardena and the Treasurer Alanzo Doll while K.V. Kuganathan is the immediate past Chairman.

Elaborating on his leadership vision for BCS in 2022/23, Chairman Vajeendra S. Kandegamage said: “I am indeed privileged to be elected as the leader of the BCS Sri Lanka Section after a 15-year association with BCS. While continuing with the existing projects, I would also like to focus on a number of activities that provide sustainable benefits to our members, implement a Social Media and Digital Marketing strategy for BCS SL Section as well as add a special category to the National ICT Awards to recognise BCS students’ projects.”

“I also hope to focus on the continuous career development of the members and recognising outstanding members – from FBCS, MBCS, CITP, AMBCS who have made significant contributions to the industry and improve the BCS Certificate of Quality to the next level,” he further elaborated.

Vajeendra, is a highly skilled Chartered IT Professional with a proven track record of over 27 years in the IT industry. His IT Professional career is packed with many vertical and lateral moves resulting in the experience he brings to BCS Sri Lanka. Currently, he functions as the Managing Director/CEO of Stemcore Asia Ltd., a top-tier firm operating in Information and Communication Technology Services, Solution Development, and IT Consulting. He has previously served as the Director - Projects and Planning/Founder of Info Link Systems Lanka in 2003 and was a Managing Partner of Infotech Solutions Inc. from 2001 to 2003.

For over 15 years, Vajeendra has been recognised as one of the most experienced ICT judges at both national and International ICT competitions. In addition, his continuous contribution as the Chairman for National ICT Awards – NBQSA, for 10 consecutive years, recognises his management and leadership capabilities. He also holds many honorary positions at the Asia Pacific ICT Alliance (APICTA)

The BCS Sri Lanka section (BCSSL) was established in 1996. The section has over 1000 corporate members (MBCS) and about 3000 student members. Around 150 members are Chartered Information Technology Practitioners (CITP)s. BCSSL counts more than 10 Fellow Members (FBCS) amongst its membership.

The parent body, the BCS, is the industry body for IT professionals, and a Chartered Engineering Institution for Information Technology (IT). With members in over 100 countries around the world, BCS is the leading professional and learned society in the field of computers and information systems.

## [04:05] SLT-MOBITEL recognised at UiPath Automation Excellence Awards 2021 as changemaker of automation

[https://www.ft.lk/business/SLT-MOBITEL-recognised-at-UiPath-Automation-Excellence-Awards-2021-as-changemaker-of-automation/34-731662](https://www.ft.lk/business/SLT-MOBITEL-recognised-at-UiPath-Automation-Excellence-Awards-2021-as-changemaker-of-automation/34-731662)

SLT-MOBITEL, the National ICT Solutions Provider has received Jury Recognition at the UiPath Automation Excellence Awards 2021 organised in association with The Economic Times.

The third edition of the UiPath Automation Excellence Awards recognised and celebrated UiPath customers in India and South Asia, for the business impact created by driving innovation using automation in their respective fields. At a virtual awards ceremony, 31 winners across 15 categories were felicitated in their quest to become fully automated enterprises.

An eminent and expert panel of global adjudicators bestowed Jury Recognition on SLT-MOBITEL in the category Automation Excellence – Sri Lanka, selecting the organisation as among the best performers in Sri Lanka and South Asian Region. The panel of jurors evaluated the nominees based on impact in relation to project/process, business, and strategy levels.

“RPA was an initiative towards operational excellence in SLT’s Digital Transformation journey. We opted UiPath as the software enabler and were able to justify this investment with signiﬁcant saving of time and cost during the last year. We are truly honoured to receive this award,” stated SLT Chief Ofﬁcer-Information Tilak Gamalath.

SLT-MOBITEL’s deployment of Robotic Process Automation (RPA) solutions, sought to reinforce its commitment to digital transformation, especially optimising operations for enterprise customers. With RPA functionalities, customers can transform processes through the integration of automation solutions resulting in improved productivity and digital maturity.

UiPath is a leading enterprise automation software company built on a vision to deliver the Fully Automated Enterprise, where companies use automation to unlock their greatest potential. UiPath offers an end-to-end platform for automation, combining the leading Robotic Process Automation (RPA) solution with a full suite of capabilities that enable every organisation to rapidly scale digital business operations.

It is a great honour that SLT has been recognised by such a leading enterprise automation software company.

## [03:49] 662 persons test positive for COVID-19

[https://www.ft.lk/news/662-persons-test-positive-for-COVID-19/56-731652](https://www.ft.lk/news/662-persons-test-positive-for-COVID-19/56-731652)

650,802 COVID-19 cases detected in total

Includes 545,665 persons from the New Year cluster

16,201 persons currently under medical or home-based care

121 persons released from treatment centres on Monday



By Shailendree Wickrama Adittiya

Sri Lanka’s COVID-19 case count rose to 650,802 following the detection of 662 COVID-19 patients yesterday.

All patients detected yesterday were from the New Year cluster, the Department of Government Information states.

The previous day, 508 persons from the New Year cluster tested positive for COVID-19. The Health Promotion Bureau states that 4,041 PCR tests and 1,937 rapid antigen tests were conducted on Sunday.

According to the Epidemiology Unit, 545,665 patients from the New Year cluster, 82,785 patients from the Peliyagoda cluster, 9,154 patients from the Prisons cluster and 3,059 patients from the Divulapitiya cluster have been detected.

The country’s total COVID-19 detections also include 7,235 Sri Lankan returnees from overseas and 328 foreigners.

The district distribution of COVID-19 patients shows 135,820 patients from Colombo, 112,865 patients from Gampaha, 57,569 patients from Kalutara, 43,456 patients from Galle, and 30,906 patients from Kurunegala.

COVID-19 detections during the third wave of the pandemic include 103,523 patients from Colombo, 94,331 patients from Gampaha, and 50,511 patients from Kalutara.

There are 16,201 persons under medical or home-based care at present. In addition to this, 899 persons suspected of having COVID-19 are under observation.

The Epidemiology Unit states that 121 persons were discharged from treatment centres yesterday, raising the country’s COVID-19 recoveries to 618,262.

## [03:49] 10,982 persons vaccinated  against COVID-19

[https://www.ft.lk/news/10-982-persons-vaccinated-against-COVID-19/56-731651](https://www.ft.lk/news/10-982-persons-vaccinated-against-COVID-19/56-731651)

COVID-19 vaccines were administered to 10,982 persons on Sunday and 78.71% of the country’s population has received at least one vaccine dose.

According to Our World in Data, second dose coverage reached 66.08% of the total population on 5 March.

The Epidemiology Unit states that 16,928,363 persons have received the first dose of a COVID-19 vaccine and 14,208,755 persons have received the second dose as well.

The third dose has been administered to 7,317,106 persons. This includes 8,856 persons vaccinated on Sunday. According to the Epidemiology Unit, 325 persons received the first dose of Pfizer on Sunday, raising the total number of persons to have received the first dose of the vaccine to 2,459,695. The second dose of Pfizer has been administered to 744,203 persons, including 927 persons vaccinated on Sunday. The first dose of Sinopharm was administered to 294 persons on Sunday and the second dose was administered to 580 persons. In total, the first dose of Sinopharm has been administered to 12,025,126 persons and the second dose has been administered to 11,102,786 persons. The first dose of AstraZeneca has been administered to 1,479,631 persons and the second dose has been administered to 1,418,593 persons.

A total of 804,801 persons have received the first dose of Moderna and 787,361 persons have received the second dose as well.

The Epidemiology Unit states that the first dose of Sputnik V has been administered to 159,110 persons and 155,812 persons have received the second dose of the vaccine.

## [03:49] Eight COVID-19  fatalities confirmed

[https://www.ft.lk/news/Eight-COVID-19-fatalities-confirmed/56-731650](https://www.ft.lk/news/Eight-COVID-19-fatalities-confirmed/56-731650)

Health officials confirmed eight COVID-19 fatalities on Sunday, raising the country’s COVID-19 death toll to 16,339.

This is the first time less than 10 COVID-19 deaths have been confirmed in a day since 17 January, when seven COVID-19 fatalities were confirmed.

According to the Department of Government Information, six COVID-19 fatalities confirmed on Sunday were over 60 years, one was between 30 and 59 years, and one was below 30 years.

Of the total COVID-19 deaths confirmed to date, 76.27% are from the over-60 age group, 22.42% are from the 30 to 59 age group, and 1.31% are from the under-30 age group.

Five COVID-19 fatalities confirmed on Sunday were male and three were female. A total of 9,210 fatalities confirmed to date are male and 7,129 are female.

## [03:48] Most sacred elephant dies aged 68

[https://www.ft.lk/news/Most-sacred-elephant-dies-aged-68/56-731649](https://www.ft.lk/news/Most-sacred-elephant-dies-aged-68/56-731649)

Mourners gather as children touch the body of Sri Lanka’s sacred tusker Nadugamuwa Raja, who carried a golden casket of relics at an annual Buddhist pageant, in Weliweriya on 7 March 2022, as the death sparked a stream of mourners and calls for a state funeral – AFP





(AFP): Sri Lanka’s most sacred elephant passed away aged 68 on Monday, prompting an outpouring of grief and a presidential order for the huge cadaver to be stuffed and preserved for posterity.

Nadungamuwa Raja was the most important among 100 elephants used in an annual pageant involving fire-eaters and drummers, tasked with carrying a golden casket of Buddhist relics on its back.

On Monday a procession of mourners -- including schoolchildren, priests in saffron robes and an elderly lady with a Zimmer frame -- paid their respects to Raja, praying and touching its mighty tusks in reverence.

President Gotabaya Rajapaksa decreed that the animal be declared a “national treasure” and ordered its remains be preserved “for future generations to witness,” his office said.

Raja was due to be handed over to taxidermists later on Monday for stuffing after Buddhist funeral rites have been performed, its owner said through a spokesperson.

Decked out in lights, Raja carried the casket of relics at the annual Esala Perahera pageant, a major tourist draw, in the central city of Kandy -- performing the role most years from 2006 to 2021.

The elephant even had an armed escort of elite commandos after a 2015 incident when a motorcyclist almost rammed it while on an outing to attend a temple ceremony.

One of Raja’s predecessors, who was also known as Raja, carried the golden casket of 34 relics for exactly 34 years between 1953 and 1986. When the older Raja died in 1988 aged 72 there was an enormous outpouring of grief and the government declared a national day of mourning.

The older Raja was also preserved and has its own museum within Kandy’s Temple of the Tooth compound, which contains a purported tooth of the Buddha.

Choosing a successor will be a lengthy process. The chosen elephant has to be from a particular caste with special physical characteristics to qualify. When the elephant stands, seven points -- the four legs, its trunk, penis and tail -- must all touch the ground.

The animal must also have a flat back, the tusks must be formed in the shape of a traditional winnow and its height must be about 12 feet (3.6 metres). An exception was made with Raja, who was only 10.5 feet tall, because it was the tallest in the country at the time. Raja was born in India and had been gifted to Sri Lanka by an Indian prince.

Elephants are a protected species in Sri Lanka but many are kept as pets because they are seen as status symbols.

Laws have been tightened in recent years to ban the capture of wild elephants which is punishable with death. Animal rights campaigners say captive elephants are often maltreated, a charge denied by temples and owners of domesticated elephants.

n A unique ‘elephantine’ experience -See Page 19

## [03:47] President instructs to name tusker Nadungamuwa Raja as a national treasure

[https://www.ft.lk/news/President-instructs-to-name-tusker-Nadungamuwa-Raja-as-a-national-treasure/56-731648](https://www.ft.lk/news/President-instructs-to-name-tusker-Nadungamuwa-Raja-as-a-national-treasure/56-731648)

President Gotabaya Rajapaksa yesterday instructed the Secretary to the Ministry of Buddhasasana, Religious and Cultural Affairs Prof. Kapila Gunawardena to name the deceased tusker Nadungamuwe Raja who carried the casket containing the Sacred Tooth Relic, as a National Treasure.

The President also instructed to preserve the body of the Nadungamuwa Raja for future generations to witness.

A team of officials from the National Museum has visited Nadungamuwa, Weliweriya in Gampaha where the tusker was living in.

## [03:47] Personal Data Protection Bill debate tomorrow

[https://www.ft.lk/news/Personal-Data-Protection-Bill-debate-tomorrow/56-731647](https://www.ft.lk/news/Personal-Data-Protection-Bill-debate-tomorrow/56-731647)

Several bills to be debated and passed this week

Amendment to Intellectual Property Act, Workmen’s Compensation Act to be put for parliamentary approval

Adjournment debate on power crisis in country slated for Thursday



The Personal Data Protection Bill, which provides for the regulation of processing of personal data and protects the rights of individuals, will be taken up for debate in Parliament tomorrow.

The proposed legislation defines measures to protect personal data of individuals held by Government entities, banks, telecom operators, hospitals and other personal data aggregating and processing entities. This will be among a number of bills that will be debated and passed in Parliament this week.

The Intellectual Property (Amendment) Bill will be taken up for debate today. The Bill will introduce a ‘geographical indications registration system’ to provide for the registration and administration of geographical indications and connected matters for local products.

The Workmen’s Compensation (Amendment) Bill will be taken up for debate on Thursday. The amendment to the Act will expand its scope by providing for payment of compensation to the workmen who are injured while coming from their place of residence to the workplace or while returning home from work. An adjournment debate on the power and energy crisis prevailing in the country will be held in the afternoon of the same day.

Three private members motions by three MPs will be taken up on Friday. These include a motion for formulating a program for persons who are over the age of 60 to make them active members of the society by MP Buddhika Pathirana, a motion on re-activating the local seed production process by MP Rohan Bandara and motion for regulating counsellors and psychiatrists in Sri Lanka by MP Rohini Kumari Wijeratne.

The Second Reading debate of the Land Development (Amendment) Bill will also be taken up on Friday.

## [03:45] ECCSL Intl. Women’s Day Networking session on Thursday

[https://www.ft.lk/news/ECCSL-Intl-Women-s-Day-Networking-session-on-Thursday/56-731646](https://www.ft.lk/news/ECCSL-Intl-Women-s-Day-Networking-session-on-Thursday/56-731646)

The European Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka is organising a networking event to celebrate International Women’s Day, under the theme of “Network Women Transform Society” on 10 March from 6 p.m. onwards at “the Lawn”, Kingsbury Hotel.

Many distinguished guests including Ambassadors, women entrepreneurs and business leaders will grace the event.

“Networking is a valuable enabler in the national and international business world. Since COVID prohibited gatherings in the past two years, we are extremely excited to announce the first face to face networking event this week,” ECCSL said adding both female and male guests are welcome at the event.

It is open for ECCSL members as well as non-members at a minimal fee of Rs. 3,500 for members and Rs. 4,500 for non-members. Limited seating is available hence early registration is recommended.

The event is sponsored by Scanwell Logistics Colombo Ltd., as the Gold Sponsor, ATG Lanka Ltd., and Senikma Holdings Ltd., as the Silver Sponsors and The Serendipity Collection as the Platinum Prize Sponsor. Gift sponsors are Bogawantalawa Tea, Harpo’s Group, Asylum Restaurant and Buddy’s Delight while HSBC are Corporate Sponsor and Flipit Media Ltd are the creative sponsor.

Interested parties can registser online for the event at: https://bit.ly/3C87wAo or contacting ECCSL by e-mail to clientservicing@eccsl.lk or operations@eccsl.lk or by telephone at 011 755 0016 or 011 755 0017.

## [03:32] 10th Cargills ‘Village to Home’ supports local SMEs

[https://www.ft.lk/business/10th-Cargills-Village-to-Home-supports-local-SMEs/34-731638](https://www.ft.lk/business/10th-Cargills-Village-to-Home-supports-local-SMEs/34-731638)

Chief Guest Ministry of Finance Director General - Development and Finance Geetha Wimalaweera with Yamuna Kumari from Cargills ‘Village to Home’ Team



Cargills Bank Debit card being handed over by Cargills Bank Managing Director/CEO Senarath Bandara to an SME. Lasantha Mahendrarajah and Pradeep Namasivayam from Cargills Bank are also present



Cargills ECE preschool teacher with students of the program



The pandemic has caused many challenges to the agricultural and SME communities across Sri Lanka. Among the challenges was a lack of market access. The Cargills ‘Village to Home’ program was launched with the intention of addressing this issue and supporting the country’s small and medium entrepreneurs by providing them with a platform to engage with a larger network of customers.

The program is a monthly trade fair at Cargills Food City premises, which commenced in the latter part of 2020, for selected SMEs with demarcated stalls to sell their products directly to customers. Cargills bears all expenses related to this program, including the cost of stalls, utility and marketing. To date, over 90 SMEs have taken part in the program.

In addition to a marketplace and an added source of income, Cargills also provides technical support to the SMEs in terms of packaging, labelling and quality assurance, while the Cargills Bank provides financing through low-cost loan schemes. SMEs also stand an opportunity to get their products listed at Cargills while the program has also been able to open markets beyond Sri Lanka for some SMEs. Cargills is committed to assisting entrepreneurs to contribute towards national development.

Cargills has been supporting the agricultural and SME communities of Sri Lanka for over 20 years since the company established its farmer outgrower network in 1999. The Cargills community development program features both dairy and agricultural farmers as well the local SMEs at the heart of it.

The 10th program of Cargills ‘Village to Home’ was successfully conducted on the 26 and 27 February at the Kadawatha-3 Cargills Food City premises.

The 10th program had an exciting array of products on offer ranging from Ayurvedic beauty products, coconut oil and coconut-based products, Aloe Vera jelly and desserts, sugar cane-based products, coir and reed (pan) products to soft toys etc. The products on offer as well as the event were received well by the customers.

The recently introduced Lanka QR payment facility was also available for consumers to make cashless payments, providing added convenience. The National Enterprise Development Authority (NEDA), the Small Enterprises Development Division (SED), the Ministry of Cane, Brass, Clay, Furniture and Rural Industry Promotion, and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce have assisted Cargills in the selection of SMEs.

The Cargills Foundation had a special stall at this month’s ‘Village to Home’, with the intention of sharing the work undertaken by their Early Childhood Education (ECE) Program which provides children with an early exposure to English as a second language. The ECE Program aims to improve the lives of children beyond urban Sri Lanka, as exposure to English at a young age helps build confidence in children and stand them in good stead for the future.

The Foundation has developed the ‘Cargills ESL’ home learning pack, which provides access to a digital learning app along with five storybooks. The packs are available at selected Cargills Food City outlets, and all sales proceeds are utilised to fund the Cargills ECE Program which is being implemented in preschools across the island.

## [03:18] HERCapital by Hatch: Pioneering gender-smart funding in Sri Lanka

[https://www.ft.lk/business/HERCapital-by-Hatch-Pioneering-gender-smart-funding-in-Sri-Lanka/34-731630](https://www.ft.lk/business/HERCapital-by-Hatch-Pioneering-gender-smart-funding-in-Sri-Lanka/34-731630)

1st row from left: Barrister-at-law Zara Mandviwalla Akbarally, Surge Global CEO Hayley Evans, Personal Investor (ex-Morgan Stanley) Sonia Dandona Hirdaramani, and McLarens Group of Companies Joint Managing Director Shehara Jayawardana

2nd row from left: Softlogic Invest CEO/Director Niloo Jayatilake, Hatch Co-founder Nathan Sivagananathan, and Hatch Co-founder/Director Brindha Selvadurai-Gnanam



Gender disparity within the entrepreneurial world is a globally prevalent problem, often stemming from the underrepresentation of women in the labour force and leadership positions. This imbalance in diversity is mainly seen in markets with no gender-smart funding, which makes gender a key component in their program.

The lack of gender diversity at the firm level and the unavailability of gender-smart support structures are persistent hurdles faced by women entrepreneurs throughout the region.

Globally, the finance gap between women-led MSMEs (Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises) and those led by men have shown to be a whopping $ 1.2 trillion. This can be attributed to the significant underrepresentation of women among investment decision-makers at private equity (PE) and venture capital (VC) firms, board representation, and leadership positions.

Moreover, research into the South Asian market has shown that as of 2019, only 45% of firms have a strategy to improve gender diversity in emerging markets, leading to female participation in ownership only being 18%, with only 9.3% of women holding board positions and only 9% of PE and VC funding going into female-led companies; leaving these companies underfunded.

Sri Lanka is no different from the rest of the region, with the lack of an investment ecosystem for female entrepreneurs, leading to only 25% of the country’s entrepreneurs being women, despite women representing majority of the population, accounting for 52%.

Seeing this lack of diversity and the need for a gender-smart funds, Hatch has now introduced HERCapital, Sri Lanka’s first-ever gender-smart funding scheme. The goal of the scheme is to create a better ecosystem for local women entrepreneurs and help increase gender diversity in PE/VC pipelines.

The basis of the scheme will take a strategic approach to investing in entrepreneurs, by taking into consideration gender-based factors throughout the investment process, to advance gender equality and better inform investment decisions.

Such schemes can be seen growing in popularity, with 58.6% of international fund managers choosing to invest through a gender lens. A similar trend was also seen in Asia, with 70% of the active investment vehicles established after 2017, being done through a gender lens.

Hatch’s HERCapital fund aims to pioneer a similar gender-smart funding scheme in Sri Lanka and will empower early-stage startups through a well-structured program that includes mentorship and financial support. The fund will address existing gender inequalities through investment and support more women-led businesses while continuing to champion equal representation within the start-ups funded.

The fund’s gender balance comes from the adoption of practices such as gender analysis, gender due diligence, deal origination, deal structuring, etc., which help promote a more gender-balanced fund.

From the concept to scaling through commercialisation, the fund will empower early-stage startups through a well-structured program that includes both mentorship and financial support.

These entrepreneurs will be offered seed funding of $ 25,000 per startup for 5%-20% equity, alongside other benefits such as a 12-week structured program with trainings and workshops, an opportunity to pitch to local and regional VC’s, one-on-one mentoring with dedicated mentors, connections to global accelerator platforms, and free access to Hatch co-working space.

HerCapital is set to have 2 cohorts per year and 10 startups per cohort, with an estimated fund size of $ 1 million, out of which $ 500 k will be allocated for seed funding and the other $ 500 k for follow-on funding respectively.

The fund will also focus on encouraging disruptive innovations in products, technology, and business models in several areas. These include Agriculture, Education, Health, Energy, Sustainability, IoT, Payment, SaaS, Digital, and MarketPlace.

Based on available market data, HerCapital is expected to increase step-up valuation for companies by 1.64 times, per year in valuation by 5.5%, and profitability by 15%.

The fund has also brought on six industry disruptors to back it as its investment committee, five of whom are women entrepreneurs themselves. They include Personal Investor (ex-Morgan Stanley) Sonia Dandona Hirdaramani, Surge Global CEO Hayley Evans, McLarens Group of Companies Joint Managing Director Shehara Jayawardana, Softlogic Invest CEO/Director Niloo Jayatilake, Barrister-at-law Zara Mandviwalla Akbarally, and Hatch’s very own Co-founder/Director, Brindha Selvadurai-Gnanam.

## [03:18] Sri Lanka’s women business leaders step into the spotlight

[https://www.ft.lk/business/Sri-Lanka-s-women-business-leaders-step-into-the-spotlight/34-731631](https://www.ft.lk/business/Sri-Lanka-s-women-business-leaders-step-into-the-spotlight/34-731631)

Dilhani Iresha at the Top50 Professional and Career Women Awards 2016



DHD Handlooms Owner Dilhani Iresha, with her handloom products



Dilhani Iresha De Silva never expected to be an entrepreneur—much less run a thriving export business with an international customer base. She decided to start a company just over a decade ago because she wanted to be able to work from home while raising two young sons. So, when she received an award in 2016 — winning the ‘Top50’ Professional and Career Women Award for Upcoming Woman Entrepreneur — she felt it “was like a seal of approval.”

It also jump-started her business. The award “gave me the exposure to grow bigger and expand my export share,” said De Silva, who runs DHD Handlooms, which produces crafts made by Sri Lankan women. “I was able to earn more and hire more women from my village.” After the award — and the recognition that came with it – DHD Handlooms earned more than it had before the award.

The ‘Top50’ Professional and Career Women Awards were created to bring more formal recognition to businesswomen just like De Silva and many others in Sri Lanka, says Sulochana Segera, Founder/Chairperson of Women in Management (WIM) and creator of the award. Segera saw “a vacuum in recognising women leaders and hidden talents” and wanted the “many inspiring women within our shores” to serve as local role models for young people as well as encourage other women to pursue careers.

The ‘Top50’ Professional and Career Women Awards started as a Colombo-centric conference with 25 women and five awards in 2011. Just over a decade later, it has evolved into an annual event and moved beyond Colombo, the commercial capital of Sri Lanka, offering encouragement and recognition to many other Sri Lankan women.

With over 520 award winners across the economic spectrum and in a wide range of professions – banking and finance, hospitality, media, legal, logistics and supply chains – the award serves as a stepping stone to leadership roles for women across diverse fields, organisations, and communities.



A stepping stone to success

The award itself is a significant milestone for Sri Lankan society. Over the past two decades, women’s participation in Sri Lanka’s labour force has stagnated between 30 and 35%. This is low considering women make up more than half of university graduates and perform equally as well as boys in school. Research shows that a combination of factors – in particular socio-cultural norms, high levels of caregiving responsibilities, and restrictive laws – keep Sri Lankan women on the sidelines.

As WIM marks the eleventh anniversary of honouring Sri Lankan women, IFC has been a partner for the ‘Top50’ awards for seven consecutive years, and the fourth in collaboration with Women in Work — a partnership between IFC and the government of Australia.

The awards have evolved to promote women’s leadership across a spectrum of areas. During the first year of the partnership between IFC, WIM, and the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT), nominations grew by almost 400%, and three more award categories were added — Best Private Sector Organization for Gender Equality, Male Champion of Change, and Women on Boards.

Over half of the corporate award winners experienced career advancements, while over 90% of small and medium-sized business winners have reported increased brand recognition and market growth.

“The recognition through the award highlighted that professionalism could lead to women being appointed to male dominated boards and bring in a female perspective to the deliberations on many subjects,” said Minette Perera, the 2019 winner of ‘Top50’ Professional and Career Women Awards for Women on Boards. Perera, the first winner in this category, is a Board member of Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company.

The hard work is paying off.

Results show that increased recognition of women’s leadership roles is making lasting impacts. Research by IFC and Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) points to a rise in the number of women board directors. The share of women on boards in Sri Lanka’s 30 largest companies listed on the CSE increased by more than 50% between 2018 to 2021.



Toward gender parity

IFC is involved in a broad array of efforts – through investment and advisory – to enhance women’s participation in Sri Lanka’s private sector, demonstrating the business case for investing in women. Over the years, IFC investments have promoted access to finance for women entrepreneurs across the country.

IFC’s Corporate Governance for Women program promotes women’s private sector participation and gender diversity among Sri Lanka’s business leadership. This includes training for women directors, programs for women-led smaller businesses, and research on obstacles to increase gender parity in the boardroom. Under the program, IFC also partnered with the Sri Lanka Institute of Directors to set up a Sri Lanka chapter of the Women Corporate Directors to further promote women’s board leadership.

The progress made by women like De Silva shows what can be achieved when women and men participate equally in the economy. De Silva acknowledges that recognition like the award she received can set the stage for more Sri Lankan women to transform the global economy and recognise their own potential.

“Today, I provide handloom products to several hotels in Sri Lanka’s South, and I have a shop in the city,” De Silva said. “My ultimate goal is to make DHD Handlooms a household name and become a female entrepreneur of global recognition.”

With over 50 years of operations in Sri Lanka, IFC has played a significant role in the country’s growth story through support for small businesses, tourism, women, including women entrepreneurs, infrastructure, trade finance and agribusiness. IFC has invested over $ 1.9 billion across sectors including infrastructure, telecom, tourism, energy, health, and have also provided cutting-edge solutions and expertise to our diverse clients across the country. IFC continues to play a strong countercyclical role in Sri Lanka, providing much-needed long-term capital and trade financing to the country’s private sector.

## [03:17] SLIM Research Bureau holds ‘Accelerating Women’s Economic Empowerment in Sri Lanka’ forum

[https://www.ft.lk/business/SLIM-Research-Bureau-holds-Accelerating-Women-s-Economic-Empowerment-in-Sri-Lanka-forum/34-731629](https://www.ft.lk/business/SLIM-Research-Bureau-holds-Accelerating-Women-s-Economic-Empowerment-in-Sri-Lanka-forum/34-731629)

Aims to issue new policy paper on inclusive economic growth



The SLIM Research Bureau, the newly formed research arm of the Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing (SLIM), organised a forum titled ‘Accelerating Women’s Economic Empowerment in Sri Lanka’ on 10 February, with the participation of an eminent panel comprising top female professionals, CEOs, directors, and entrepreneurs in Sri Lanka.

With the objective of discussing the current economic climate for women in Sri Lanka and providing insights and recommendations, the forum brought to light the economic barriers faced by women as well as the importance of creating a favourable legal and social background for inclusive economic growth.

The forum is the second phase of a three-phase project carried out by the SLIM Research Bureau. As the first step, the Research Bureau conducted a baseline survey and desk research, and gathered insightful information to get an understanding about the current landscape of female employment and economic participation in Sri Lanka.

The final step of the project will be issuing a policy paper with recommendations to the Government and corporates to make necessary amendments to the existing laws and regulations while taking necessary actions to facilitate higher women participation in the workforce.

Representing SLIM were its President Thilanka Abeywardena, Vice President Nuwan Gamage, and Secretary Gayan Perera. Third-party endorsement was provided by Hemas Holdings PLC Group CEO Kasturi Chellaraja Wilson, McLarens Group MD Shehara De Silva, Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Chief HR Officer Dilrukshi Kurukulasuriya, University of Colombo Department of HR Management Head Prof. Arosha S. Adikaram, Transparency International Sri Lanka (TISL) Deputy Executive Director and UNCAC Coalition Board Member Sankhitha Gunaratne, Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) Country Head – Sri Lanka and the Maldives Onalie Dissanayake, Dialog Axiata PLC Group Chief Customer Officer and SLASSCOM Chairperson Sandra De Zoysa, Mother Sri Lanka Trust Chairperson Dr. Janaki Kuruppu, MAS Holdings GM – Women’s Empowerment, Advocacy, and Code of Conduct Thanuja Jayawardene, Ceylon Today Editor-in-Chief Vindya Amaranayake, Wijeya Newspapers Ltd. Head of Wijeya Integrated Media Solutions Gayani Punchihewa, and PwC Sri Lanka Senior Manager Nivedha Balasunderam.

The Accelerating Women’s Economic Empowerment in Sri Lanka forum took a hybrid approach where participants joined the discussion at Cinnamon Grand and also virtually via MS Teams.

## [03:08] Sri Lanka’s future is decidedly female: Banking on empowered women for economic rejuvenation

[https://www.ft.lk/columns/Sri-Lanka-s-future-is-decidedly-female-Banking-on-empowered-women-for-economic-rejuvenation/4-731625](https://www.ft.lk/columns/Sri-Lanka-s-future-is-decidedly-female-Banking-on-empowered-women-for-economic-rejuvenation/4-731625)

One of the most famous women in history once said: “Within crisis, are the seeds of opportunity”. The source of such a powerful truism? Marilyn Monroe, a woman who clearly possessed great wisdom, but is unfortunately remembered for her physical beauty than her intellectual and emotional strength.

While it may be hard to focus on growth during times of turbulence, those that are able to find those seeds of opportunity ultimately receive disproportionate benefits. Today Sri Lanka is in the middle of just such a moment. There is of course unanimous consensus that our nation needs to urgently identify and utilise every available opportunity to help revive and rejuvenate our economy. But the devil is in the details.

Therefore, in weighing our options, we should consider a few essential details. First, we must acknowledge that is a compelling reason why women’s empowerment is often raised in tandem with economic development. Globally, countries are estimated to lose $ 160 trillion in wealth because of differences in lifetime earnings between women and men. This amounts to an average of $23,620 for each person in the 141 countries studied by the World Bank.

Secondly, despite Sri Lanka’s rich history of female leadership at the top and outstanding female education rates – including near parity between men and women in higher education, Sri Lanka’s female labour force participation (FLFP) rate has been persistently entrenched at a dismal 32%; the same as it was a decade ago, and falling among the lowest in South Asia. Most importantly, research has shown that Sri Lanka can increase our Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by as much as $ 20 billion each year up to 2025, simply by advancing the cause of gender equality1. The question we must collectively ask ourselves this year is simple; can we afford to neglect this potential any longer?

Our hope this International Women’s Day is that in responding to Sri Lanka’s ongoing economic challenges, we also take the time to reflect on the significant contribution that women have made to the development of our nation and reach a firm consensus on the extensive measures we need to take to empower many more Sri Lankan women to reach their full potential.



Clearing a path to progress

Many of the obstacles faced by Sri Lankan women today are the product of generations of regressive attitudes and ideologies that have become entrenched to the point where today, they have created systemic failures. While these issues are certainly not unique to Sri Lanka, the solutions we create to address these issues will have to be.

One area that has the potential to have the highest impact is encouraging and supporting more women to become entrepreneurs. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka’s directive to the domestic banking sector to allocate 5% of its loan portfolio specifically for women-led enterprises was certainly a positive step in the right direction. The onus is now on our industry to carry forward this initiative with greater enthusiasm.

So far, approximately 3% of our total SME portfolio comprising 126,216 clients in total, has been channelled towards women-led enterprises. This means that in total, we have supported over 3,000 women-led SMEs to achieve their entrepreneurial dreams and gain an unprecedented level of control over their own finances. These businesses span diverse areas including everything home gardening, agriculture, food, fashion, packaging, and stationery.  In 2022, we aim to expand our SME lending by 20% Year-on-Year (YoY). In the process, we hope to further expand access to finance and opportunity for more women entrepreneurs. Capacity building will be another essential focus area, with a total of 40 structured capacity building programs already arranged over the course of the year, across the island.

HNB is also partnered with USAID for selected short-term SME development programs. Similarly, we partnered with ITC and the Sri Lankan Export Development Board to provide focused capacity building and financial literacy training to 100 women to support their aspirations to compete in international markets.

We are also partnering CIMA Sri Lanka to train and mentor women entrepreneurs, to help them unlock disproportionate growth potential in the SME space and leverage that growth to create more employment opportunities for women.

Over the year, HNB hopes to drive greater awareness and focus on these programs to ensure that funds and training are channelled to where they are most needed. However, while Sri Lankan women, on average, are better educated than their South Asian counterparts, they are less likely to use that education to secure economic advantages. Part of the problem is that our education system itself requires reform so that our next generation is better prepared with the hard and soft skills necessary to enter the workforce.  Similarly, we need to focus on expanding technical and vocational training to more women while simultaneously dispelling myths and biases against women taking up some jobs and not others.

Moving forward, Sri Lankans must join in creating a nurturing environment that is conducive for women entrepreneurs and address the specific pain-points that are most responsible for keeping women out of the workforce. These include practical investments in systems to ensure safe childcare, and transport.

Legal reforms are an important component, such as the domestic ratification of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Convention 190, which enshrines the right of everyone to a world of work, free from violence and harassment. However legal reform will only take us so far.

True progress requires that we also address the cultural dysfunction at the root of all gender-based discrimination. Because ultimately, change must start with each of us. In our homes, our schools, and our communities. Given that the stakes for economic development have never been higher, we must make sure that we get this right, to build a better, more equitable future that serves all Sri Lankans, regardless of their gender.

Footnote:

1Mckinsey: Advancing gender equality in Sri Lanka: A crucial balancing act (2019)



(The writer is the Chairperson of Hatton National Bank.)

## [03:07] NCE highlights women to the fore in exports

[https://www.ft.lk/business/NCE-highlights-women-to-the-fore-in-exports/34-731624](https://www.ft.lk/business/NCE-highlights-women-to-the-fore-in-exports/34-731624)

Although gender equality and women empowerment are not novel concepts in the modern world, as there have been many changes occurring in the thinking patterns of the minds of people, achieving gender equality is an important part of the Sustainable Development Goals of Sri Lanka. Females play a significant role in the global economy, as they invest more on the socioeconomic life of their families more than males do.

Female participation to the economy is considered a vital factor for a middle-income country like Sri Lanka to be at the forefront of the next wave of economic growth. Currently, female participation in the labour force is at 40% which is significantly lower than 75% of men’s contribution. It is a known fact that, female entrepreneurs will reinvest in their business, families and education, assisting a sustainable economic growth. Therefore, empowering women is the key to achieve more entrepreneurs in the country and thereby increasing the contribution to the country’s economy.

The National Chamber of Exporters of Sri Lanka established a special setting for women entrepreneurs “NCE Women’s Wing” who are already involved in exports to encourage and motivate them with a long-term vision to achieve sustainable economic growth and the achievement of development goals through active participation of women in business. This special section is dedicated to women owned/women led businesses with the intention of contributing to the national economy through empowerment of women entrepreneurs and exporters.

The Chamber has taken this initiative to achieve the following objectives:



To facilitate women exporters and entrepreneurs in Sri Lanka to enter international markets such as the EU.

To highlight women exporters as a career and encourage women to take on employment in export-oriented companies.

To diversify the export product base through women participation.

To find out opportunities available in foreign markets for women exporter or entrepreneur.

Contribute towards the government’s initiative to increase the women participation in business and legislative framework.

Achieve sustainable economic growth through women participation in business/exports

Contribute towards improving the socio-economic life of society.



NCE has already initiated connecting local banks with multi-national companies for export related projects such as loan schemes for small and medium enterprises owned by females, whilst seeking foreign funding for projects related to women empowerment in international trade. Also, the Chamber has facilitated advice and knowledge sharing forums from top NCE members on their export related issues. We are also representing issues faced by women owned enterprises at various forums related to international trade.

In furtherance, in its business plans for the next year, the NCE is also planning to conduct training programs, seminars and webinars and also identify regional talents of women entrepreneurs for entry into international trade through links with regional chambers. Moreover, we will also create networking opportunities with other women led enterprises both local and international.

In highlighting and recognising the performance of Sri Lankan women led businesses in the international markets, the NCE confers a special award for “Best Woman Exporter of the Year at the Annual Export Awards, the flagship event of the Chamber. The following women entrepreneurs have been able to win this prestigious award during past years.

nPushpa Padmaperuma – Toy Products Sector

nRamya Weerakoon – Apparel and Textiles

nMano Sheriff – Toy Products Sector

nLakmini Wijesundara – Information Technology

nSita Yahampath – Handloom

nHemali Bandara – Apparel and Textiles

nAnoma Gamage – Apparel and Textiles

nShashlika de Silva – Spice and Spice Based Products

The Chamber believing in the importance of empowering women to be involved in International Trade has formulated the concept of a Women’s Wing in the chamber dedicated to support women owned and women led enterprises. The Women’s Wing will provide specialised services with the firm belief that this initiative will enable more female entrepreneurs to choose exports as a career and in the long run will contribute as chamber towards the sustainable economic development of the country whilst promoting gender balance in local and international trade.

The National Chamber of Exporter of Sri Lanka is the leading chamber exclusively responsible for serving the export sector with variety of services. The Membership of the Chamber represents leading exporters across all product and service sectors in Sri Lanka, ranging from Large to Small export-oriented enterprises.

## [03:06] SLASSCOM Women Technopreneurs Forum celebrates IWD 2022

[https://www.ft.lk/business/SLASSCOM-Women-Technopreneurs-Forum-celebrates-IWD-2022/34-731623](https://www.ft.lk/business/SLASSCOM-Women-Technopreneurs-Forum-celebrates-IWD-2022/34-731623)

From left: SLASSCOM first female Chairperson Sandra De Zoysa, SLASSCOM’s Board Lead for WTech Shehani Seneviratne and Head of WTECH Forum Dr. Harshani Perera



Recognising the need to promote greater gender equality in the tech entrepreneurship space, the SLASSCOM WTech forum has over the past year, been taking a lead role in powering women to embrace entrepreneurship and in supporting every stage of their entrepreneurial journey from ideation, starting up, scaling to becoming established.

Taking this initiative even further to enable greater female representation in tech entrepreneurship, the WTech Forum will be holding a series of events organised under the theme “WTech Fest” that would comprise of a series of virtual panel discussions specially curated with rural women participants in mind. Carried out in Sinhala and Tamil and targeted at female entrepreneurs as well as female students, graduates and undergraduates with career aspirations foraying into the Tech and BPM industry, it features learnings on successful female entrepreneurship journeys , their great wins, challenges and pitfalls, useful tips and insights that will serve as guidance in navigating successful businesses in the Tech and BPM arena for a plethora of rural women.

The panel discussions will be held in collaboration with some of SLASSCOM’s invaluable long-term regional partners, namely Uva Startup Hub, Central Startup Hub, Sabaragamuwa Startup Hub and Jaffna NCIT, and SLASSCOM’s Regional Development Forum.

The discussions will revolve around how regional women entrepreneurs can harness tech platforms and evolving digital business models successfully into their businesses and thereby contribute to the economic success of the country by excelling in local businesses as well as by exporting software and BPM related products and services.

The Forum also plans to launch three long-term, sustainable Entrepreneurship Development Programmes in partnership with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Royal Norwegian Embassy (RNE) and other sponsor partners. The key focus of these programs will be to help female tech entrepreneurs across all regions to scale to the next level in their business by equipping them with skills and competencies to develop a sound and viable business plan, improve their capacity to access funding, improve their knowledge and skills in using digital platforms and gain access to one-on-one mentoring. In parallel, these female entrepreneurs will be provided insights into the digitisation of their business and guidance on connecting and collaborating with investors together with market access opportunities leveraging on the IOI- Island of Ingenuity brand.

Among other initiatives and activities rolled out by the SLASSCOM WTech Forum for IWD 2022, a database of on-demand mentors along with their areas of expertise will be featured on the SLASSCOM WTech official webpage, providing opportunities for aspiring women technopreneurs across all regions in the country to reach out to these mentors and be guided on emerging technologies, delivery excellence and how they could grow into technology leaders who provide creative and innovative products and solutions to the world.

SLASSCOM first female Chairperson and the Executive Sponsor of the Women Technopreneurs initiative Sandra De Zoysa said: “At SLASSCOM, our aim is to empower the 51% female population of this country and a major part of this success will depend on how we can accelerate the participation of our regional women by enabling them to be tech savvy innovators and entrepreneurs whilst encouraging them to unleash their full potential. This series of programs launched will be the starting point towards achieving this goal.”

SLASSCOM’s Board Lead for WTech Shehani Seneviratne said: “Our country urgently needs more women entrepreneurs in technology, we need their perspectives, skills, curiosity and ideas to design a more equitable future. By creating new and innovative tech companies, rural women can make a great difference not just for themselves or for their families but also for our country.

Tech Entrepreneur and Head of WTECH Forum, Dr. Harshani Perera said: “Every woman across all regions of our country deserves the same access to financial and technical resources. From SLASSCOM WTECH we are actively working to build and grow female entrepreneurs, so that they can contribute towards SLASSCOM’s vision of fuelling 1,000 startups, enabling a 200,000 workforce and generating an export revenue of $ 5 billion by 2025.”

## [00:10] Trade union actions and opportune times

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/Trade-union-actions-and-opportune-times/172-232557](https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/Trade-union-actions-and-opportune-times/172-232557)

Trade unions in the health sector have put off their strike last week which they had been continuing for several weeks. They have been making several demands including one to rectify the anomalies in their salary scales. They might have been encouraged to launch a strike at this juncture by the recent successful trade union action by the principals and teachers of state sector schools.



Unlike in the case of the agitations by the principals and teachers, the health sector employees did not attract the sympathy of the public and nobody seemed to openly support their strike, even in social media. This can be attributed to people suffering a lot due to this strike action. In fact it is the trade union actions in the health sector that worst affect the common man. They claim lives of the ordinary people and not the authorities who are responsible for these salary anomalies or any other issues that affect the striking employees.



It does not mean that the people are against this trade union action in general. People are not against the workers winning their rights. In fact nobody goes against the right of the workers to strike, if the demands are reasonable. Neither has anybody the right to deprive them or employees of any other sector of that right. Right to strike and other trade union actions are hard won and not something that has been given to the workers on a platter by the employers or any government. These rights have been won by the working people in any country through struggles waged for decades. It was well-known that the right to eight-hour work was accepted universally after the famous struggle by the workers of American city of Chicago in 1886 during which nine lives of workers were lost.

In Sri Lanka also it was through a series of struggles by the Colombo launderers, Kurunegala butchers and Jaffna cigar wrappers in 1896, workers from Royal Engineering Department in 1897, Colombo carters in 1898 and 1906, boatmen in Colombo harbour and printing workers in 1901 as well as the more organised struggles in later years under the aegis of the Sri Lanka’s leftist movement the workers’ rights were established and recognized by law. These include the rights to economic concessions, proper working conditions and also rights to demand rights through trade union actions such as strikes. However, this long journey was not a bed of roses. Struggles by the workers, especially those from the plantation sector have claimed so many lives.



Therefore, one cannot demean the rights of the workers to strike or launch any other trade union action. Nevertheless, unlike the carter’s strike or the boatmen’s strike waged in early 20th century, it is the ordinary people who are first to be hit and severely affected by the present day trade union actions. In other words, the working class has to first hit the members of their own class directly in order for the authorities concerned to feel the heat. In the State sector, authorities are not affected economically at all by any trade union action, as they in turn put the burden of financial losses incurred due to the trade action on the people who already have suffered directly by the trade union action. They are affected only in term of popularity, if the trade actions are dragged on for weeks or months.



Ironically, the success of a trade union action is measured by the degree of people being affected by those actions. A strike in the health sector is considered successful by the striking trade unions by the number of deaths occurred or other serious issues faced by the people during the strike. Even during the recent health sector strike, few deaths occurred in hospitals were attributed to it. This is depriving the people of their rights, especially the right to life – the most valued right. Hence, the trade unions have an enormous responsibility to think twice before taking trade actions, as they too do not have any right to deprive others of their rights. Those actions should be the last resort and have the minimum impact on others’ rights.



It is customary for the authorities to claim that the time is not opportune for trade union actions, as they did during the war and at the height of the COVID 19 pandemic. For them, the opportune time for such actions is only in the eternity. However, there are times that are not appropriate for drastic trade union actions such as strikes, like the one that the country is passing through now with an unprecedented shortage of fuel, gas, electricity and many essential items, bringing the life close to a situation of standstill. We witness the frustration and anger given vent to by the people in various parts of the island every day. Trade union leaders must consider the possibility of their actions at such a time backfiring, giving the authorities to bring in laws to suppress trade union actions for good.

## [00:00] Mismanagement or Wheeler-dealing:  Where did all bond money go?

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/Mismanagement-or-Wheeler-dealing-Where-did-all-bond-money-go/172-232558](https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/Mismanagement-or-Wheeler-dealing-Where-did-all-bond-money-go/172-232558)

However, one thing is starkly clear. The government’s decision to repay the ISB in January effectively emptied the country’s razor-thin foreign reserves

The country descended into darkness as thermal plants ran dry. Sri Lanka’s monthly oil bill is around US$ 400 and would go higher as crude oil hit US$ 110 a barrel due to Russia’s war in Ukraine

Ceylon Electricity Board had requested US$ 150 million for the oil imports to run the power plants for the next two months. Power plants regularly grind to halt as the oil stocks run out





Can the government share with the public the list of bondholders who were paid in the January repayment of the US$ 500 million International Sovereign Bond, so that the people might peruse it and know how we got there?



That bond repayment is the straw that broke the camel’s back of the country’s foreign reserves.  The eagerness on the part of the Central Bank governor to pay the bond against all advice was equally striking. Sri Lanka is a rare gem where the government keeps insisting on honouring bond repayments against all advice, including the IMF, while its foreign reserves are in a net negative against this year’s projected debt payment of US$6.7 billion.  Since the country’s credit ratings have already been downgraded to C or C+, and therefore considered as entailing a heavy default risk, and depriving it the access to the international financial markets, that is no longer about defending non-existent creditworthiness. The government abandoned the issuance of ISB after several previous ones were severely undersubscribed.



The bond repayment in January smacks as a decision guided by the personal calculations, to reward a few henchmen who had bought the coupons in the secondary market at a hefty around 50% discount after the original owners dumped fearing a default.



These concerns can be allayed if the government submits to Parliament a list of bondholders who were paid in January. Still, it could cite the bank secrecy laws not to do so. There are innovative ways to empty the public coffer at its weakest hour and get away scot-free.



However, one thing is starkly clear. The government’s decision to repay the ISB in January effectively emptied the country’s razor-thin foreign reserves.



Foreign reserves dropped to US$ 2,361 million in January, which included a US$ 1.5 billion worth Yuan swap from China, which can only be utilized for payments denominated in Yuan, basically imports from China. Effectively, the active foreign reserves were around the US$ 800 million.  During the same month, the government received a US$400 million swap from India and repaid the US$ 500 million of International Sovereign Bond.



The result was the further squeeze of the available foreign reserves to pay for essential imports: oil, gas, medicine, milk powder and construction materials.  Last week, the government struggled to pay US$ 35 million for an oil tanker. The country descended into darkness as thermal plants ran dry. Sri Lanka’s monthly oil bill is around US$ 400 and would go higher as crude oil hit US$ 110 a barrel due to Russia’s war in Ukraine.



Sri Lanka is risking a complete economic collapse due to the mismanagement of its limited foreign reserves, and the misplaced and unsustainable peg on the Rupee that had curtailed the foreign remittance.



In the meantime, a copious amount of wheeler-dealing and rent-seeking is taking place. A proposal for emergency power purchasing from handpicked private providers has been submitted to the Cabinet, while the primary drag on the power generation itself has been the absence of hard currency to pay for oil imports. Those deals come with hefty commissions.



Ceylon Electricity Board had requested US$ 150 million for the oil imports to run the power plants for the next two months. Power plants regularly grind to halt as the oil stocks run out. Rolling power cuts of 7.5 hours is an extreme manifestation of the mismanagement of the economy, and would further increase as the ensuing dry weather limits the power generation capacity of hydro powerplants.



Fuel shortage is threatening to bring public transport to a standstill. Only 50% of the buses are currently operating and the shortage at the pumps would drive the rest off-road.



Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s ‘Saubagyaye Dekma’ is one full of long queues and daily ritualistic humiliation for citizens. He decimated the local agricultural sector with one overnight decision to ban the chemical fertilizer. Now the regular power cuts and shortage of essential supplies are destroying the livelihood of the rest.

The once-thriving construction industry is at a standstill and hundreds of thousands of construction workers are made unemployed due to the shortage of cement, not to mention the skyrocketing of the prices of construction materials due to hoarding. Banks have run out of dollars.



The two local gas companies have warned of a new bout of shortage due to the inability to find hard currency to pay for the imports.  Bakeries and small-time eateries have taken the brunt of multiple shortages. The regular supply of Bread is now a luxury.  Wheat flour is rationed to the backers in most areas.



All this is a bad advertisement for the tourism industry which the government’s financial czars have deemed the lifeline. That has been an over-optimistic and premature take on the reality of the tourism market, which is still reeling from various mutations of Covid.



War in Ukraine and sanctions on Russia have made things worse. Russians have been the main market for Sri Lankan tourism in the absence of Chinese whose overseas travels are curtailed by the zero covid policies of Beijing. Yet, tourism at the current status would bring a fraction of around the annual  US$ 4 billion it earned pre-covid era.



The debt crisis had been developing over decades and was not the fault of this government. However, the elephantine mess up of the mismanagement of the crisis is solely its fault.



A few commonsensical fixes can still alleviate a great deal of the strains on the foreign reserves.  Float the Rupee that is pegged to 198 a US$ while it is trading in the parallel market for around Rs. 250-260 per US$. That would prompt the migrant workers to remit their earnings through the formal channel and exporters to bring back Greenback parked in foreign banks. No one wants to take a 25% haircut from their hard-earned money to prop up a personal-political agenda of the government.



Foreign remittance from the Sri Lankan workers (around US$ 6.7 billion in pre covid era (2019) is large enough to cushion the strains in the foreign reserves.



Second, suspend debt payments and restructure foreign debt under an IMF facilitated programme. The Central Bank has also proposed a set of measures, including some salient ones such as pricing fuel at the market rate.  But it has stopped short of the sine qua non: floating the Rupee.



In not-so-distant history, a television channel owned by a Rajapaksa acolyte provided SMS updates on rupee depreciation under the previous government.  The current administration simply does not want to accept the reality and is struggling to maintain an artificial exchange rate, effectively draining the country’s foreign reserves. Its callous choices of self-interest have unleashed untold hardships,  recurrent shortages and are leading to a complete economic collapse. All that is to serve the petty personal interests of the ruling coterie.



If the plight of the places misgoverned by equally incompetent and rent-seeking elites - such as  Venezuela, Nicaragua, Mugabe’s Zimbabwe, etc.-  is any guide, this is only the beginning.  The worse is yet to come if the government does not change its course. Or the government itself is changed.



Follow @RangaJayasuriya on Twitter

## [00:00] March 8- International Women’s Day Women and War: Who labelled them ‘Weaker Sex’?

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/March-8-International-Womens-Day-Women-and-War-Who-labelled-them-Weaker-Sex/172-232560](https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/March-8-International-Womens-Day-Women-and-War-Who-labelled-them-Weaker-Sex/172-232560)

Women have already surpassed men in terms of high school and college graduation rates, globally, as well as in Sri Lanka. Women have outshone men in the fields of Finance, legal, Medicine and even encroached the Engineering field in recent years

The increased strength in international women’s groups backed by several United Nations women’s conferences has helped as a rallying point to bolster and sustain women’s rights

At the turn of the twentieth century, the activities of labour movements in the Americas and Europe caused the birth of International Women’s Day



“I have an idea that the phrase weaker sex was coined by some woman to disarm some man she was preparing to overwhelm.”

—Ogden Nash:

American poet

The Russian onslaught has sparked massive dislocations, forcing many Ukrainian women to carry their little ones and flee their homes to neighbouring countries. UN Special Representative on Sexual Violence in Conflict, Pramila Patten thinks, ‘it is also putting women at heightened risk of hostility’.  She continued, “Unless the conflict stops, thousands of families will be compulsorily displaced, dramatically increasing the scale of the already dreadful humanitarian situation, and growing risk of sexual violence and abuse.” The involvement of women themselves in the decision-making processes and caring response is therefore necessary to ensure that their civil rights and privileges are sustained.



The history is full of occurrences where women have made remarkable contributions to their societies. Women have played multiple roles in wars over the centuries, while keeping the home fires burning— they have supported the forces with domestic labour in the early 18th Century, and engaged in nursing positions at the frontline too. Thousands of women volunteered as nurses and participated in war work during the First World War.  Many life-saving procedures they often carried out in spite of working in awful conditions. Due to the huge numbers of enrolled men, more vital roles, including work on the railways, police, factory-work had been entrusted to them.  In the upper classes, women supported the war endeavour by stitching uniforms for troops. Women’s roles extended greatly two decades later, during the World War II. Millions of women were working to provide the military with, ships, aircraft and ammunition. Women were also asked to enlist in military ranks, and seventy per cent of women who joined the army were volunteers. Young single women rushed to work free for the Voluntary Aid Detachment and the British Red Cross.



“The worst form of inequality is to try to make unequal things equal.”—Aristotle. However, the validity of this saying [in today’s context] by a philosopher who lived circa 384 BC is questionable.  Women have already surpassed men in terms of high school and college graduation rates, globally, as well as in Sri Lanka. Women have outshone men in the fields of Finance, legal, Medicine and even encroached the Engineering field in recent years.

An emotional meeting between the Buddha and his lay life queen, Bimba Devi took place in Kimbulwatt-pura, 26 centuries ago. King Suddhodana sent a message to Bimbavo, for her to appear before Buddha. She replied in the negative,



“Surely, if I am worthy of any fondness, Sidhuhatt should come and see me in my chambers”—Yasodhara

The Buddha demonstrating his modest qualities and regard for his former partner in samsara invited his two chief disciples, Sariyuth and Mugalan to accompany him to her chambers. As the Buddha entered her chamber, where she was resting dressed in uncaring fabrics, she was unable to hold her respect. For a moment she failed to remember that the man whom she loved most was now the Buddha, she held him by his feet and cried desperately.



International  Women’s Day



At the turn of the twentieth century, the activities of labour movements in the Americas and Europe caused the birth of International Women’s Day. It has assumed a new worldwide dimension for women in both the developed and developing countries. The increased strength in international women’s groups backed by several United Nations women’s conferences has helped as a rallying point to bolster and sustain women’s rights.  One of the earliest feminist movements, ‘Women’s Liberation’ has been a continuing encounter for over one and a half centuries. It is renowned for bringing to light the role and activities of women in the socio-political field. The theme for this year’s International Women’s Day, “Gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow.”



The day will be marked with marches, talks, performances, rallies and networking events.

Let’s imagine a world free of bias, and discrimination, a world that is diverse, equitable, and gender equal world; a world where differences are valued and celebrated together and forge women’s equality.



‘Wives are mistresses to young men, companions for middle-aged, and nurses to old men.” --Francis Bacon



They themselves are to be blamed?



When popular male celebrities perform on stage, young lasses who are fanatic music fans invade the stage. They embrace, hug and kiss them; throw their lingerie at them. This weird habit, a frequent occurrence in the Western music world, was once enacted in Sri Lanka as well. Will a male ever think of behaving in such an irregular way? Why do they surrender their chastity to a male through such absurd behaviour and later cry foul?

They should bear in mind that it is the self-esteem and decorum of their womanhood that upholds a dignified position for them in the society. They should not plead, appeal, beg, or grovel. They must courageously stand together, and struggle collectively. International Women’s Day is an occasion to reflect on past progresses. No man can make a woman feel inferior without her consent.



Bhadda alias Kundalakeshi daughter of a rich merchant fell in love with a criminal on a death sentence. Father gets the criminal freed for the girl to marry him. He requests her to a hike up a rock wearing all her jewellery.  Reaching the top, he tells he will now kill her.



I quote Ms Usula P Wijesuriya’s truly amazing lyrical quality in her adapted version of Theri Gatha titled, ‘The Songs of the Sisters’ …



“Remove your jewels, foolish woman,

Bundle them and hand them quick,

Your time has come, you wayward nymph

Down this chasm you’ll go to your death.”

Bhadda though wayward was sharp in her wits,

She pleaded on bended knee,

“Kill me if you will, these jewels are yours,

But grant me a boon beloved lord,

Let me worship thee once, fore, aft and sides

Like a true eastern wife extolled in sacred texts.”

“Be quick”, yelled the robber…

“I’ve no time for thee …”

Bhadda worshipped him fore, she touched

his feet,

She circled him aft, and with a mighty heave

Pushed him down the precipice.

A deity on a tree watching this tableaux unfold,

Smiled as he said, “Man cannot always the winner be,

Woman outsmarts him sometimes.”

- kksperera1@gmail.com

## [00:00] Why is the West targeting Russian oligarchs? It is part of a larger politico-economic agenda

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/Why-is-the-West-targeting-Russian-oligarchs-It-is-part-of-a-larger-politico-economic-agenda/172-232559](https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/Why-is-the-West-targeting-Russian-oligarchs-It-is-part-of-a-larger-politico-economic-agenda/172-232559)

Putin applauds oligarch Igor Sechin





The Soviet economy, “which had been built with tremendous sacrifices by the working class over decades, was sold for peanuts to former Red Directors, rising stars of the gangster-elite and Western hedge funds”

The ongoing fight against the Russian invasion of Ukraine is not to save Ukraine but to rid Russia of its indigenous oligarchs, who are the main support base of the ultra-nationalistic Putin, who is challenging the West’s hegemony in Europe

Weiss alleges that the US was hand-in-glove with Soviet politicians and the bureaucracy in implementing Perestroika in order to secure the interests of the US bourgeoisie





The US and its Western allies have sanctioned top Russian businessmen dubbed ‘oligarchs’ as part of their campaign against Russian President Vladimir Putin. On March 3, the White House, in coordination with Allies and partners, targeted additional Russian elites and family members who continued supporting Putin “despite his brutal invasion of Ukraine”.



The White House charged that “these individuals have enriched themselves at the expense of the Russian people, and some have elevated their family members into high-ranking positions. Others sit atop Russia’s largest companies and are responsible for providing the resources necessary to support Putin’s invasion of Ukraine. These individuals and their family members will be cut off from the US financial system, their assets in the United States will be frozen and their property will be blocked from use.”



There are five reasons for the US action against the oligarchs: 1. The oligarchs are the pillars of the hated Putin regime 2. Much of the post-USSR Russian economy is in their hands 3. Crippling them will weaken the Russian economy 4. Their ultimate obliteration will lead to Western and US businesses taking over their businesses under a friendlier post-Putin regime 5. Lastly, the Russian masses, impoverished by the ugly politico-economic regime of the oligarchs, will welcome the new pro-Western politico-economic order.



Origin of the Oligarchs



Russian oligarchy has its origin in Mikhail Gorbachev’s“Glasnost” (Openness) and “Perestroika” (Restructuring) reforms in the 1980s. Perestroika entailed the logic of economic markets and the ending of central planning characteristic of the Soviet regime. In the domestic sphere, the concept of private property was introduced, and in the international sphere, the Soviet economy was integrated with the capitalist global market.

Writing in www.wsws.org in 2018, Clara Weiss says that in 1982, the Soviet Communist Party set up mechanisms to work out ways to set up capitalism. In this endeavour, the party had the full support of the Soviet bureaucracy and the trade union leadership. Most significantly, the privatisation project also was fully backed by the US Establishment.



The Soviet economy, “which had been built with tremendous sacrifices by the working class over decades, was sold for peanuts to former Red Directors, rising stars of the gangster-elite and Western hedge funds,” Weiss points out. “The most famous case was that of Boris Jordan, also called the ‘Russian Czar’. Jordan, a young hedge fund manager from Boston with Russian ancestors, acquired 17 million of the 144 million vouchers distributed to Russians for use in bidding for shares in the privatised companies and, on this basis, bought stakes in many of Russia’s most important companies.”



Weiss alleges that the US was hand-in-glove with Soviet politicians and the bureaucracy in implementing Perestroika in order to secure the interests of the US bourgeoisie. The main front organisation for the State Department and CIA was the AFL-CIO. “Starting in 1988, the AFL-CIO provided a substantial amount of funding for the NPG (Independent Miners’ Union), as well as other so-called independent trade unions that supported the Yeltsin faction in the power struggle in Moscow against the faction around Gorbachev,” Weiss writes.

From the very beginning, the US, through the AFL-CIO, as well as the bureaucracy, sought to subordinate NPG’s leadership to their interests. Several trade unionists from the workers’ councils active in the miners’ strike were invited to the US, where they met representatives from the State Department and the AFL-CIO, Weiss adds.

One of the biggest acts of looting of state property was undertaken by the so-called independent union federation, the FNPR, Weiss says. In September 1992, a contract between the FNPR and the government formally established the transfer of the whole property of the Soviet unions to the FNPR. Weiss quotes a 2009 article in Nezavisimaya Gazeta, to say that the property transferred included 100,000 pioneer camps, over 25,000 sports facilities, around 1,000 sanatorium complexes and 23,000 clubs and culture palaces. Some estimates put the total worth of the property transferred at about US$100 billion.



Another huge source of profit for the FNPR became the lending of its real estate to companies and banks. According to the Nezavisimaya Gazeta, Mikhail Shmakov, the head of the FNPR since 1993 and a close ally of Vladimir Putin, was considered to be one of the richest men in Russia. Weiss quotes a Russian sociologist who said: “A minister became the holder of controlling shares in a concern; an administrative head in the Ministry of Finance became the president of a commercial bank; a senior manager in Gossnam (the former Soviet agency responsible for distributing the ‘means of production’ became the chief executive of the stock exchange.”

Only a tiny oligarchy and a very small upper middle class have benefited from Perestroika. The Credit Suisse global wealth report for 2016 revealed that among all major economies, Russia had by far the highest concentration of wealth in the hands of an oligarchy. The top decile owned a stunning 89% of all household wealth in Russia, compared to 78% in the US and 73 in China. 122,000 individuals from Russia belonged to the world’s wealthiest 1%, and the country had 79,000 dollar millionaires. Russia also had the world’s third-largest number of billionaires, 96, topped only by the 244 living in China (which had almost 10 times the population of Russia) and the 544 billionaires in the US. Only about 4% of the population qualified as “middle class.”



By contrast, (according to Nezavisimaya Gazeta) in April 2017, some 56% of Russian workers made less than 31,000 rubles (US$531) a month. The official subsistence level was later lowered by the government to less than 9,691 rubles (US$166), a wage that is impossible to live on. Official statistics indicated that the number of extremely poor people, living beneath this low threshold, stood at around 19 million.



According to the Russian journal Expert, the total industrial production in Russia collapsed by 55% in the 1990s thanks to Perestroika. By comparison, during the Great Depression in the US, production declined by 30%. In Russian history, only the combined effect of World War I and the Civil War after the October Revolution had been worse. Foreign capital flowed to the stock markets and financial institutions, but not into industry.



Coal-mining employment in Russia plunged from 900,000 to roughly half of that by 2000. Production, which had peaked in 1988 with 400 million tons, dropped to just 225 million in 1997. In 1998, after the closure of at least 58 mines, the government announced plans to shut down another 86 out of the remaining 200 coal mines. Every year, an estimated 15,000 workers died in workplace accidents, according to numbers of the International Labour Organisation. A horrifying 190,000 workers died annually as a result of exposure to dangerous conditions at work.

Workers were going without wages for months and even years. While this was a general phenomenon in the Russia of the 1990s, the situation was particularly dire in the coal industry, a key Russian industry. Dozens of Kuzbass mine managers were assassinated as part of the mafia wars in the 1990s. The Kuzbass had the third-highest murder rate in the nation. One mine director, who was asked by the Moscow Times about the influence of organised crime on the coal business, answered briskly: “They don’t influence it. They run it.”

The West is getting ready to exploit the situation. The ongoing fight against the Russian invasion of Ukraine is not to save Ukraine but to rid Russia of its indigenous oligarchs, who are the main support base of the ultra-nationalistic Putin, who is challenging the West’s hegemony in Europe. But that is not all. The ultimate goal is to replace the indigenous Russian oligarchs with Western or West-backed entrepreneurs. The expectation is that the long-suffering Russian worker will welcome such an intervention as a god-send and a harbinger of a better life under Western-style capitalism.

## [00:00] “SJB needs collegial leadership” -Champika Ranawaka -

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/hard-talk/SJB-needs-collegial-leadership-Champika-Ranawaka/334-232564](https://www.dailymirror.lk/hard-talk/SJB-needs-collegial-leadership-Champika-Ranawaka/334-232564)

Former Power and Energy Minister and Samagi Jana Balawegaya (SJB) parliamentarian Patali Champika Ranawaka has admitted that some key changes are required in the SJB in order for it to pose a strong challenge to the ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) at the next election.



Ranawaka calls for restructuring of SJB

He ramained non-committal on reports he would contest Presidential Election

Says focus now is to address issues whithin the country

Admits key changes required in SJB

Reveals he was aware of corruption when MR was President

Dollars being wasted on highway projects  ​



In an interview with the Daily Mirror Ranawaka was non-committal on reports that he will contest the next Presidential election. He also spoke on the current energy crisis facing the country and about reports of serious corruption when Mahinda Rajapaksa was President.



Excerpts:



Q Looking at the energy crisis we are facing right now, since this was your subject when you were a Minister in the former Government, do you see a solution to this issue?



Before we look at the solution, we must see the root cause for this issue. As far as the electricity crisis is concerned it is not the capacity of the problem. We have around 3500 firm energy. That means large hydro power. Plus thermal energy plants owned by the CEB and private power producers. The CEB also has renewable energy sources. Mainly mini-hydros and rooftop solar, which is around 480 megawatts. That’s a big amount. Then we also have wind power. Grid connected solar and bio-gas.



So, in all we have about 4800 megawatts. The peak demand is around 2700 megawatts. So we have sufficient capacity. The real problem is that the thermal energy plants are not running because of the fuel shortage.

The other issue is with the fuel shortage. We need around 3500 MT of petrol and 5500 MT of diesel for transportation only. If we use diesel and other fuel for electricity generation another 4000 MT is needed. So in all we need around 9000 MT of diesel. So, it’s a huge crisis because of the dollar shortage.





We need around 3500 MT of petrol and 5500 MT of diesel for transportation only. If we use diesel and other fuel for electricity generation another 4000 MT is needed. So in all we need around 9000 MT of diesel. So, it’s a huge crisis because of the dollar shortage





The State banks are heavily indebted. The Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC) is indebted to them to around USD 3 Billion.  Because of this the net foreign assets owned by the banking sector, including the Central Bank, is now minus 5 billion. So it creates a huge economic problem for us.



So on one side there’s a shortage of essential medicinal drugs, essential food items, then the energy crisis, power cuts and huge queues at the petrol stations.



So to solve this problem you need to solve the financial issue which is the foreign currency shortage.



QAnd this foreign currency shortage has been caused by the pandemic?



No not at all. This is complete misinterpretation of the issue. The dollar crisis is mainly because of the debt repayment issue. In 2013 our total debt repayment, in terms of dollars, was around 2 billion. Now it’s around, over 7 billion. My calculation is that while we are using swaps and other short-term loan packages, by 2023 it may reach USD 9-10 billion. So, within the space of a decade the debt repayment has increased by 500 percent. At the same time the GDB growth is just 20 percent. So it’s a huge gap.



After 2005, we obtained a lot of short-term, high interest loans by issuing international sovereign bonds and Sri Lanka development bonds. They were short-term (5-10 years) and at very high interest rates. We invested these loans on long-term mega projects. These projects did not give us proper revenue to repay our loans. So we did this without a proper financial study.





The dollar crisis is mainly because of the debt repayment issue. In 2013 our total debt repayment, in terms of dollars, was around 2 billion. Now it’s around, over 7 billion. My calculation is that while we are using swaps and other short-term loan packages, by 2023 it may reach USD 9-10 billion. So, within the space of a decade the debt repayment has increased by 500 percent





QWhat were some of those projects?



Basically, the expressways. From Katunayake to Colombo is ok. From Colombo to Galle is ok. I am partially in agreement with the Colombo to Kurunegala expressway as well. But others are totally uneconomical. That is one reason.



The other reason is increasing costs. As you know there is a benchmark cost.  In an elevated road there is a benchmark cost. For a 300MW power plant, whether it is fueled by coal, or natural gas, we know the standard cost. But the costs are being inflated. It’s not 15 percent or 10 percent. Sometimes it’s 400 percent.



QSo somebody is making an extra buck?



Yes. There was a report in 2016. The report found that from 2004 – 2014 the foreign currency that has been siphoned off from the country is around USD 19 billion. At the same time, at the end of 2014 our total foreign debt was around USD 24 billion. So you can imagine what kind of corruption was taking place.



Still the Government is trying to expand our expressway network. We don’t have enough medical drugs, we don’t have enough food, farmers don’t have fertilizer, no fuel and no electricity, but we are building a number of expressways.



When you analyze the cost figures related to the road development programmes, 35-40 percent of the material is being imported.  So, dollars are being wasted.





In 1988, the CEB’s long-term generation plan forecast an energy deficit. The CEB desperately needed firm energy generators.  The only solution was coal power plants because of the cost. The first coal power plant was to be put up in Mirissa. There were several protests against it and President Ranasinghe Premadasa cancelled the plans





For example, it is estimated that the expressway cost from Kurunegela to Dambulla is around USD 1 billion. Out of which at least USD 400 million worth of material is imported.  So, the Government does not know it priorities. That’s the main cause of this problem.



QYou spoke about corruption. But you were part of the Mahinda Rajapaksa led Government at one time. There were allegations of a lot of corruption taking place back then. Is that something you were aware of?



Yes. Actually, I wrote a book. There I analysed, for example the A-9 road construction and also the rail network construction from Vavuniya to Jaffna. I analysed these with benchmark costs. We found the jacking up of costs is around 400 percent. And with regard to the expressway from Kadawatha to Kerawalapitiya the cost was jacked up by around a massive 2000 percent. Even now, from the Ingurukade junction to Chaithiya Road, there is an elevated road connecting Port City and other expressways. The per-kilometre cost is around Rs. 25 million. But from Dematagoda to Athurugiriya it is 4 times more. It is 19 KM and costs USD 1920 million. Sri Lanka has to pay over a period of 15 years.



So, I wrote a book and it cost me politically. But I thought it was my duty to reveal all these things. Take for consideration the Puttalam coal power plant. There are three synchronised machines; which are 300 MW each. The manufacturing cost of one machine is USD 171 million. The others are USD 240 million each. These are identical machines. So you can imagine how they siphoned off money.





After 2005, we obtained a lot of short-term, high interest loans by issuing international sovereign bonds and Sri Lanka development bonds. They were short-term (5-10 years) and at very high interest rates. We invested these loans on long-term mega projects. These projects did not give us proper revenue to repay our loans





There was also the Hambantota Port project, Mattala Airport, Hambantota Convention Center and the Lotus Tower. These have resulted in a heavy burden on us right now.



This Government doesn’t know the gravity of the issue. They simply terminated the IMF program and low interest projects like the Japanese funded LRT project.

QStaying with the energy issue I wanted to ask you was the Norochcholai coal power project something Sri Lanka needed? Since it was constructed there have been numerous breakdowns at that power plant.



Actually, in the energy field, especially electricity, we should have firm energy sources. For example people are talking about solar energy, wind energy and other forms of renewable energy. But these renewable energy sources do have two issues. One is technical and the other is financial.



On the technical front, because of the fluctuating energy generation you cannot rely on that. For example, during day time you can get sunlight and you can get solar energy. But at night where the demand is high, you can’t generate anything. When wind blows energy is generated. But coal plants and large hydro power plants and thermal plants, you can dispatch, regulate and manage the energy source. That is why we call them firm energy. So, we cannot operate using only renewable energy sources.



The other thing is financial. The cost for renewable energy was very high. Of course now it has been reduced drastically. But the storage problem is still there. When you try to store wind energy or solar energy it is costly.

In 1988, the CEB’s long-term generation plan forecast an energy deficit. The CEB desperately needed firm energy generators.  The only solution was coal power plants because of the cost. The first coal power plant was to be put up in Mirissa. There were several protests against it and President Ranasinghe Premadasa cancelled the plans.  There were also protests in Trincomalee and Puttalam. As a result, we experienced major power cuts from 1995.

Later a new phenomena was introduced. That was individual or independent private power plants. So private individuals generate electricity and supply it to the national grid, but at a high cost. So partially our energy deficit problem was being solved. But it created serious financial issues. So, until I took over the CEB and showed some profits in 2010, the CEB experienced huge losses from 1995-2010.



Returning to your question one may argue about the quality of the machines and environment issues, but if not for the Norochcholai coal power plant the country would have continued to face serious electricity generation issues. Even at present the plant can supply 50 percent of our electricity.



QYour decision to form the 43rd Brigade has given rise to speculation of a rift within the SJB. There are reports thatyou may go your own way. What is happening to the SJB?



Forming of the SJB at the last General Election was a very good move. However, the SJB was a breakaway group of the UNP.  The UNP vote base has been eroded after President J.R Jayewardene due to various reasons. He signed the Indo-Lanka accord and lost a substantial vote base from the Sinhala electorate. The LTTE also killed a lot of UNPers who were working at the grassroots level.  Forming of the Sri Lanka Muslim Congress created another problem. Then after the Lalith Athulathmudali, Gamini Dissanayake split from the UNP, a lot of professionals in the UNP also left.



There was a report in 2016. The report found that from 2004 – 2014 the foreign currency that has been siphoned off from the country is around USD 19 billion. At the same time, at the end of 2014 our total foreign debt was around USD 24 billion. So you can imagine what kind of corruption was taking place





So to make a credible alternative to the SLPP or Rajapaksa’s party the SJB must restructure and rebrand like what J.R. Jayewardene did in 1974. They must indict professionals and those who have delivered, into the rank and file of the SJB and the leadership. We need a collegial leadership right now.



The sole aim of the 43rd Brigade is to organise professionals who have excelled and are professional individuals, like doctors, engineers, lawyers and social activists. We are looking to organise them and make them address and deliver in the political and economic crisis.  The 43rd Brigade will address the current political and cultural issue in Sri Lanka.



QSo is the 43rd Brigade going hand in hand with the SJB?



We are trying to work with all the members of the opposition and some members in the Government. We recently presented a 5-point formula to address the current issues.



QThere are reports that you will contest the next Presidential Election as a common candidate and that you are now preparing for that. Is this true?



The election will be held in 2024. There is another 3 years to go. We don’t know what is going to happen during that time. We are now focused on attempting to salvage this country from an imminent bankruptcy. That’s it.