# 2022-03-05

*18 news articles*

## [01:00] N. Q. Dias Anticipated an Armed Tamil struggle with Indian support

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/recomended-news/N-Q-Dias-Anticipated-an-Armed-Tamil-struggle-with-Indian-support/277-232415](https://www.dailymirror.lk/recomended-news/N-Q-Dias-Anticipated-an-Armed-Tamil-struggle-with-Indian-support/277-232415)

Dias who had been engaged in confidential talks of a political nature at multiple levels acted fast to consolidate the progress achieved in time before the parliamentary poll

SWRD was an intellectual giant with liberal democratic values who had opportunistically subscribed to Sinhala Buddhist nationalism as a shortcut to ride to power

Even though Bandaranaike had suspicions about Dias conspiring against him, it is not clear as to whether ‘Chanakya” did want to usurp his “Chandragupta” at that point of time

The hardliners also wanted the Prime Minister to nationalise schools run by the Catholic and Protestant Churches but SWRD would not oblige

In 1960 legislation was brought in to take over Government assisted private schools run by the Catholic and Protestant Churches



By

D. B. S. Jeyaraj

This weekly column returns with the second part of the article titled “Sinhala Buddhist Strategist

N. Q. Dias was Feared as the “Tsar” that was published in the “Daily Mirror” of February 19, 2022. The feedback I received indicates that there is much interest in the role played by N. Q. Dias in the affairs of the nation decades ago. Some of the emails I received about my writings on the 1962 coup in general and N. Q. Dias, in particular, were very positive with requests that I write more details about the “Tsar” N. Q. Dias. I continue this week with my focus on N. Q. Dias. The first part concluded with the line “The advent of Parliamentary elections in 1956 saw the master Sinhala Buddhist strategist Neil Quintus Dias swinging into action.” How and why did Dias spring into action?



The United National Party (UNP) led by Prime Minister Sir John Kotelawala dissolved Parliament in February 1956. When fresh elections were scheduled for April 1956, the long-cherished objective of Neil Quintus Dias appeared realisable. The electoral defeat of the incumbent UNP followed by the ushering in of a new Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) led Government became a distinct possibility. However, there was much spadework to be done within a short period of time to achieve electoral victory.



As stated earlier the latter-day “Chanakya” N. Q. Dias had been working diligently behind the scenes to enthrone his “Chandragupta” S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike in the prime ministerial seat of power. NQ kept himself in the background as he was a civil servant holding the post of Registrar-General and let others bask in related glory. So much so that very few realised or appreciated the important role played by N. Q. Dias in Bandaranaike’s 1956 triumph. However, Dias who had been engaged in confidential talks of a political nature at multiple levels acted fast to consolidate the progress achieved in time before the parliamentary poll.





Sinhala was being enshrined as the sole official language and being rammed down Tamil throats forcibly as the language of courts and public administration







Mahajana Eksath Peramuna

Relegating himself to the background and adopting a position of virtual “invisibility”, N. Q. Dias along with some other political fellow travellers aided and assisted S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike to forge an electoral alliance and garner support from influential sections of Sinhala society. On February 22,, 1956 a political coalition named Mahajana Eksath Peramuna (MEP) meaning Peoples United Front was formed. There were four signatories. They were S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike – Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP), Philip Gunawardena – (Viplavakari Sama Samaja Party (VLSSP), Wijayananda Dahanayake - Sinhala Bhasha Peramuna (SBP), and I. M. R. A. Iriyagolla who claimed to represent Independent candidates forming part of the MEP coalition. The MEP was to contest polls under the Hand Symbol of the Chief constituent SLFP.



After forging together the coalition, Bandaranaike entered into an electoral no contest arrangement with the Trotskyite Lanka Sama Samaja Party (LSSP) and the Communist Party (CP). This prevented fragmentation of the anti- UNP opposition vote. More importantly, the support of the Buddhist Nikayas was obtained through the Eksath Bhikku Peramuna. In addition, several Buddhist organisations and prominent individuals also joined the MEP camp. N. Q. Dias played a crucially important subterranean role in these political exercises aimed at garnering wider support for SWRD.



The MEP election campaign got underway. As stated earlier making Sinhala the sole official language and redressing the historic wrongs done to Buddhists were to be the major campaign themes. The strategic objective of N. Q. Dias in the election campaign was to mobilise public opinion along anti-western, anti – Christian, and anti – Tamil lines thereby creating an overwhelming Sinhala Buddhist ethos in the country. The campaign itself was to have anti-Tamil overtones and anti-Christian undertones.



Ironically the MEP and the leftist parties with whom there was a no-contest pact were opposed to each other on the official language issue. While the MEP was for Sinhala only, the LSSP and CP were for parity of status between the Sinhala and Tamil languages. N. Q. Dias never figured conspicuously in the polls propaganda but he was very active travelling widely and monitoring the election campaign.



The Parliament of Ceylon/Sri Lanka then had ninety-five elected and six appointed MP’s. Voting was for each electorate on the first-past-the-post- winner, system. The 1956 elections were held on a staggered basis from April 5 to 10 as was the practice in the pre-1960 years. There were three days of voting. As results were announced an MEP sweep became a foregone conclusion. The UNP was routed.





Resounding Victory for MEP

It was a resounding victory for the MEP. 51 of the 60 candidates it fielded had won. The UNP on the other hand with 76 candidates had got only eight. It failed to get even the Leader of the Opposition post. The LSSP leader Dr. N. M. Perera became opposition leader as the party had won 14 out of 21 seats it contested. The IlankaiThamil Arasuk Katchi (ITAK) also known as the Federal Party (FP) got 10 out of 14 seats contested. The Communist Party got three out of nine seats it contested. Other parties such as the All Ceylon Tamil Congress (ACTC) and Independent candidates obtained the rest amounting to nine MP’s in all. Of these R. G. Senanayake contesting as an independent aligned to the MEP won in two seats namely Dambadeniya and Kelaniya.



S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike became Prime Minister and formed an MEP Government described as “Apey Aanduwa” (Our Government). In keeping with his MEP manifesto, Bandaranaike proceeded to replace English with Sinhala as the Official language. However, Bandaranaike also proposed to include specific clauses in the bill that would allow limited use of the Tamil Language in administration. This was not to the liking of people like N. Q. Dias and “Bauddha Jathika Balavegaya” leader L. H. Mettananda.



The MP for Welimada K. M. P. Rajaratna and Prof. F. R. Jayasuriya undertook a “fast unto death” on the steps of Parliament, protesting the Tamil language provisions. Bandaranaike abandoned the idea of including provisions in the Official language bill for the use of Tamil in official administration. S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike suspected that N. Q. Dias in typical low-key style had played a covert role in instigating Rajaratna and Jayasuriya’s fast. This was because Bandaranaike knew the prevailing affinity between Dias and the fasting duo.



This suspicion was perhaps the beginning of the crack between SWRD and NQ. Though Dias had devised the strategy to get SWRD elected as Prime Minister, he was always suspicious of Bandaranaike’s bona fides as far as the Sinhala Buddhist cause was concerned. Dias was doubtful about SWRD’s genuine commitment. He felt Bandaranaike had subscribed to Sinhala Buddhist supremism as an election gimmick alone without any real faith in that ideology.





Director of Cultural Affairs

Nevertheless, Bandaranaike was immensely grateful to Dias for the role played by him in the MEP victory. He offered N. Q. Dias the choice of becoming permanent secretary to any ministry that he desired. Dias declined the offer and instead requested that he be given the comparatively minor post of Director of Cultural Affairs. This apparently surprised Bandaranaike and made him wary about N. Q. Dias and his motives. Former Government Agent Neville Jayaweera has stated in his writings that Bandaranaike was not wrong in this. “SWRD’s suspicions were well-founded. Actually, NQ’s choice of the Directorate of Cultural Affairs was again evidence of his strategic mind. This post gave him an opportunity to work more closely with the Sangha and consolidate its role as a political power-house, and under its guise, he used funds to step up Buddhist political activities across the land.” writes Jayaweera in his memoirs.





Ironically the MEP and the leftist parties with whom there was a no-contest pact were opposed to each other on the official language issue





The doubts and misgivings N. Q. Dias had about S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike’s commitment towards the Sinhala Buddhist cause became more pronounced as events began to unfold. SWRD was an intellectual giant with liberal democratic values who had opportunistically subscribed to Sinhala Buddhist nationalism as a shortcut to ride to power. However, he recognised that justice had not been done to the Tamil-speaking people and sought to redress some of their grievances through political accommodation.



The signing of the pact in 1957 with ITAK leader S. J. V. Chelvanayagam to set up Regional councils was an example. So too was the introduction in 1958 of regulations enabling the limited use of Tamil in administration. However, these were opposed bitterly by the Sinhala Buddhist hawks. The hardliners also wanted the Prime Minister to nationalise schools run by the Catholic and Protestant Churches but SWRD would not oblige.



Thus the extremist Sinhala Buddhist forces who brought Bandaranaike to power were becoming disappointed and disillusioned with the PM. He was not acting strongly or speedily to establish Sinhala Buddhist dominance they felt. They wanted the Buddhist Commission report implemented in full. They demanded that the Saturday - Sunday weekend holidays be replaced by the Pre – Poya and Poya day weekend.





SWRD Alienated from N. Q. Dias

When these were not adhered to by Bandaranaike some turned against him. A coterie comprising influential members of the Buddhist clergy and laity began to conspire against the Prime Minister. They wanted to oust Bandaranaike and replace him with N. Q. Dias. When Bandaranaike became aware of these moves he began to distrust N. Q. Dias. SWRD got gradually alienated from NQ.



Even though Bandaranaike had suspicions about Dias conspiring against him, it is not clear as to whether ‘Chanakya” did want to usurp his “Chandragupta” at that point of time. It also seems unlikely that Dias who usually preferred to be in the background would have opted to be in the limelight. Neville Jayaweera with first-hand knowledge gave N. Q. Dias a clean bill of health in this. Jayaweera wrote, “However, it must be said to NQ’s credit that at no time did he put himself up, or consent to be put up, as a contender for SWRD’s job, and his loyalty to SWRD personally, and to the SLFP government, never wavered.”



Nevertheless, the rift that had set in between Bandaranaike and Dias began widening. The Cultural affairs Director who played a vital role in bringing Bandaranaike to power was now out of favour with the Prime Minister.

1959 was an eventful year. The politically powerful Buddhist monk Mapitigama Buddharakkitha Thera who controlled the Eksath Bhikku Peramuna clashed with Bandaranaike. This was more due to commercial rather than political or religious reasons. The only woman minister in Bandaranaike’s cabinet VimalaWijewardene also got estranged from the Premier.



Ananda College Principal and Bauddha Jathika Balavegaya leader L. H. Mettananda also turned hostile towards Bandaranaike because the PM was not doing enough to rectify historic wrongs done to the Sinhala Buddhists. The antagonism between both was so great that Bandaranaike referred to Mettananda as a ‘madman’. In another twist, the leftist segment of the MEP alliance which included cabinet ministers Philip Gunawardena and William Silva quit the Government.



Bandaranaike was becoming increasingly isolated. In sheer desperation, he reached out to N. Q. Dias again. Though SWRD had been giving the cold shoulder to Dias due to fears that NQ was conspiring to replace him, those doubts were somewhat dispelled now. This was because N. Q. Dias had distanced himself from those involved in the anti-SWRD conspiracy and remained steadfastly loyal. Bandaranaike realised he required the support of the Sinhala Buddhist strategist to thwart the conspiracies against him.





PM Bandaranaike Assassinated

Unfortunately, Bandaranaike was killed before complete rapprochement with N. Q. Dias became a reality. The PM was assassinated in September 1959 by Talduwe Somarama Thera.Wijayananda Dahanayake became Prime Minister. After a brief period of chaotic governance, Dahanayake dissolved Parliament. Fresh elections were scheduled for March 1960.



The March election result saw a hung Parliament. The UNP led by Dudley Senanayake came first with 50 seats and the SLFP under C.P. de Silva, finished a close second with 46. The UNP could not form a viable Government with a majority. Parliament was dissolved. New elections were to be held in July 1960.



S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike’s wife Sirimavo had been drawn into the March election campaign by C. P. de Silva. She had spoken at several well-attended meetings. The “weeping widow” as she was described by sections of the media was a crowd puller. It was felt that Sirimavo Bandaranaike should be made the SLFP leader and spearhead the SLFP propaganda campaign for July 1960. If the party won, she would become PM. However, Sirimavo was reluctant and needed much persuasion to concur. Several people engaged in efforts to make Sirimavo consent. Among these was N.Q. Dias. Finally, Sirimavo agreed.



The SLFP won 75 seats in July 1960. Sirimavo Bandaranaike created history as the world’s first woman Prime Minister. She had not contested elections and was appointed Senator. The new Prime Minister with little experience in politics and practically no experience in governance began finding her feet gingerly in unfamiliar territory. She began relying on a select group of people to offer advice and provide guidance. A notable personality among these was Neil Quintus Dias.



Though N. Q. Dias had been out in the cold after falling out of favour with S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike earlier, the frosty relationship had thawed shortly before the latter’s death. Thus NQ was easily able to get into the good books of Sirimavo after her husband’s demise. N. Q. Dias soon became the person on whom Sirimavo relied most for political advice after her political entry.





“No Question Dias”

Mrs. Bandaranaike was aware of how NQ had devised and implemented the “Sinhala Buddhist” strategy that enabled her Husband to get elected as Premier. N. Q. Dias was highly respected by Mrs. Bandaranaike. He was regarded as her “unofficial” chief political adviser. Neil Quintus Dias was appointed the Secretary to the Ministry of Defence and External Affairs. NQ was a courteous soft-spoken man but would not let himself be questioned by his subordinates. This led to the nickname “No Question Dias”.



After being appointed as Permanent Secretary to the Defence and External Affairs Ministry that was directly under the Prime Minister herself, N. Q. Dias found his stock rising. As Neville Jayaweera wrote” N. Q. Dias was not merely the Perm. Sec. Defence and External affairs, but the most powerful public servant around, and because of his influence over Mrs. Bandaranaike, feared and respected even by Cabinet Ministers, and referred to publicly as The Tsar”.



With N. Q. Dias functioning as the chief aide to the Prime Minister in the upper echelons of the bureaucracy wielding the strategically important position of Defence and External affairs ministry secretary, several Sinhala Buddhist hawks who had broken or drifted away from the SLFP camp began returning to its folds. The re-emergence of the Sinhala Buddhist hardliners influenced SLFP leader and Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike’s government greatly.





Mrs. Bandaranaike’s Hawkish Approach

PM Sirimavo Bandaranaike solemnly promised to continue with the implementation of the Bandaranaike (SWRD) policies. In practice, the SLFP Government was prepared to go much further than S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike in this exercise. In 1960 legislation was brought in to take over Government assisted private schools run by the Catholic and Protestant Churches. Also, the SLFP regime in 1961 began implementing Sinhala as the official language of administration and courts without any concession to the Tamil Language. Mrs. Bandaranaike’s hard-line differed strongly from that of her husband in this. It is widely believed that N. Q. Dias was primarily responsible for this hawkish approach.



When there was resistance by sections of the Catholic Church, the Government was prepared to deploy the Police and crush it. When the ITAK organised a peaceful “Satyagraha” against the implementation of Sinhala only in Government departments and courts, the Police tried to disrupt it by using force. Finally, the Army was called in to crush the democratic, non–violent Satyagraha. Tamil political leaders were detained at the Army cantonment in Panagoda.





N. Q. Dias fully realised the potential consequences of this ‘Sinhala only through force’ policy. He knew that the affected Tamil people suffering from a deep sense of national humiliation could resort to desperate courses of action in the future





This heavy-handed approach towards democratic dissent displayed by the Tamil people was attributed to N. Q. Dias. Sinhala was being enshrined as the sole official language and being rammed down Tamil throats forcibly as the language of courts and public administration. The Tamil language with its classical antiquity was being relegated to second-class status. The ‘Tsar’ N. Q. Dias was reportedly possessed of a brilliant intellect and strategic mindset. The effect of these actions and the impact on the Tamil people was not lost on him.





The Clausewitz of Sri Lanka

N. Q. Dias fully realised the potential consequences of this ‘Sinhala only through force’ policy. He knew that the affected Tamil people suffering from a deep sense of national humiliation could resort to desperate courses of action in the future. Neil Quintus Dias described as the Clausewitz of Sri Lanka by Neville Jayaweera anticipated the launching of an armed struggle by Tamils in the foreseeable future. He also surmised that this armed struggle would have the support of India in one way or the other. This was way back in the sixties of the last century.



Instead of trying to prevent such a possibility through an accommodative approach, N. Q. Dias devised a strategic policy of military preparedness for such an eventuality. The objective was to counter and suppress the armed struggle through military force. Much of what N. Q. Dias accomplished in this regard has not been well recorded. In fact, Neville Jayaweera himself observes ruefully” It is a pity that Dias’s vision of a future armed Tamil uprising and of India’s intervention on the side of the rebel cause, has not been properly chronicled”





Policies Formulated by N. Q. Dias

What then were the policies formulated by Sinhala Buddhist strategist N. Q. Dias in the sixties of the 20th century to cope with an anticipated Tamil armed struggle with Indian backing in the future? These would be discussed in detail in a forthcoming article.



D.B.S.Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com

## [00:54] ECONOMIC CRISIS: RECKLESS BEHAVIOUR OF DECISION MAKERS

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/ECONOMIC-CRISIS-RECKLESS-BEHAVIOUR-OF-DECISION-MAKERS/172-232414](https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/ECONOMIC-CRISIS-RECKLESS-BEHAVIOUR-OF-DECISION-MAKERS/172-232414)

Sri Lanka being an agriculturally based country, at the onset, I wish to state that ordinarily when there is a shortfall in the harvest it is the common practice of  any country to secure its needs of essential food commodities by importing its shortfall

Sri Lanka cannot afford to import as it has a foreign debt to the tune of Sterling pounds 21 Billion (Rs Billion 5775) this is inclusive of a loan of Sterling Pounds 5 Billion taken from China and the Asian Development Bank



Being economically sucked in by the quicksand of a vicious debt cycle, scarcities can lead to poor financial decisions

When the debt keeps piling up, it can seem like you’re sinking into quicksand and often when you struggle to stay afloat and escape your situation, it can lead to poor decisions, and even more problems. The psychological burden of debt not only saps intellectual resources, it also reinforces the reckless behaviour. As this article refers in particular to the consequences of an economy being burdened by debt, and being a Sri Lankan I would naturally highlight the plight of my own country, knowing the economic crisis confronting it, when referring to it as a classic example. Sri Lanka being an agriculturally based country, at the onset, I wish to state that ordinarily when there is a shortfall in the harvest it is the common practice of  any country to secure its needs of essential food commodities by importing its shortfall, but unfortunately Sri Lanka cannot afford to import as it has a foreign debt to the tune of Sterling pounds 21 Billion (Rs Billion 5775) this is inclusive of a loan of Sterling Pounds 5 Billion taken from China and the Asian Development Bank, at very high interest rates as reported in the one of the Sinhala Weekend newspapers “Aruna” of 6th February 2022 on page 09 under the title “Number of African Nations who have fallen in trouble after taking loans from China” , as collateral the Hambantota Harbour has been pledged to China on a period of long lease. It is a fearsome situation and the country has never in its history being faced with this nature of a crisis in regard to its economy.



An article in an international News Paper talks about how people when in times of scarcity, they tend to make poor financial decisions that they might not have made in times of plenty. They quickly allow themselves to get into “poverty traps”.



The usual explanations for reckless borrowing focus on people’s character, or social norms that promote free spending and instant gratification. But recent research has shown that scarcity by itself is enough to cause this kind of financial self-sabotage.



“When we put people in situations of scarcity in experiments, they get into poverty traps,” said Eldar Shafir, a professor of psychology and public affairs at Princeton. “They borrow at high interest rates that hurt them, in ways they knew to avoid when there was less scarcity.”



It’s often portrayed that people are stuck in poverty simply because of a culture of consumerism and free spending, because of poor character or upbringing, or because of a need for instant gratification. While some of that may be true, professor Shafir at Princeton also believes that when people are in situations of scarcity, they tend to fall for high interest loans, and other financial schemes that they wouldn’t have dreamed of using in times of plenty. They grasp at straws to try and pull themselves out of the quagmire of debt, and all reason flies out the window.



The Fourth of February reminds us, independence is worth fighting for. On February 4th we celebrate our nation’s declaration of freedom from the control and influence of Great Britain. Financial independence also means freedom. And as with the political independence we celebrate every February 4th; financial independence starts with a declaration. Here’s how to declare, fight for, and win your own financial Independence Day.





What Does Financial Independence Mean?

A quick definition of financial independence could be having enough wealth to live a life of comfort without the need to work. In truth, financial independence can mean different things to different people.



Between those two benchmarks lie myriad definitions of financial independence. Some people have no desire to ever quit working. They just want enough money to be comfortable and to have the ability to cover an emergency without going into debt. For others, financial independence means freedom from worry when they retire including the freedom to travel; spend time with family members; relax and enjoy the “fruits of their labour.” Others see it as being able to support themselves and be there for family who need them without worrying about being able to afford to help—or having enough to support the institutions and causes they value. Your definition could incorporate many of these goals.



The plans we’re discussing can help you build your way to financial independence. But it’s important to recognize that strategy and prudence can only go so far. Family responsibilities, health, personal circumstances, and social privilege—or the lack of it—play a large role in how free an individual is to build wealth and achieve financial independence. This advice is given in that spirit, knowing that the playing field has never been completely even. The independence and freedom granted on Fourth February is important to celebrate. But Sri Lankan’s must also recognize that it left a residual conflict between the two major communities of the new nation’s inhabitants; our nation is still fighting to feel and be fully equal and free.





Your Financial Independence Strategic Plan

Just as there is no absolute definition of financial independence, there is also no one strategy that will help you gain financial independence. That said, all strategic plans have some features in common. You will need to set financial objectives, choose the assets—financial and otherwise—you will need to achieve your goals, decide on the investment strategies and other tactics you will employ, and commit to perseverance to keep fighting for your financial independence until (given hard work and some luck) it is in hand.



The notion of the need for “eternal vigilance” in the pursuit of liberty, often attributed to Thomas Jefferson, could also be applied to financial independence.2 The road to financial independence requires a lifetime commitment to continuous budgeting and investment.



Sometimes success sneaks up on us. If your fight for financial independence is intense and persistent, you may end up as the Continental Army did after the British surrender at Yorktown, Oct. 19, 1782. At that point, historians say, the Americans had effectively gained their independence. The fight continued, however, for almost more two years until Sept. 3, 1783, when the signing of the Treaty of Paris brought the war to an end.



In other words, keep up the good fight until you are sure you’ve achieved the objectives you set out to achieve. Just as it did on Fourth February 1948, independence begins with a declaration, followed by a plan, including objectives, assets, tactics, and most of all, perseverance. A little luck can’t hurt, too, and with some generosity towards your companions on that road. Both people and nations need the company and help of others.

## [00:52] When we drink water, think of its connection with the forests

[https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/When-we-drink-water-think-of-its-connection-with-the-forests/172-232413](https://www.dailymirror.lk/opinion/When-we-drink-water-think-of-its-connection-with-the-forests/172-232413)

Human beings are expected to be good stewards of nature. Instead what have we done especially during the past few decades? Eco-friendly social analysts will tell us of the vital importance of forests, the animals, thousands of species of plants many of which have medicinal properties, insects and hundreds of other small creatures which combine to make a spectacular display of biodiversity.



Later this month the United Nations marks the International Day of Forests with the theme being “Too precious to lose”. In a statement the UN says when we drink a glass of water, write in a notebook, take medicine for a fever or build a house, we often do not make the connection with forests. And yet, these and many other aspects of our lives are linked to forests in one way or another. Forest sustainable management and the use of their resources are key to combating climate change, and to contributing to the prosperity and well-being of current and future generations. Forests also play a crucial role in poverty alleviation and in the achievement of the sustainable development goals . Yet despite all these priceless ecological, economic, social and health benefits, global deforestation continues at an alarming rate.



According to the UN, wood helps to provide bacteria-free food and water in many kitchens, build countless furniture and utensils, replace materials as harmful as plastic, create new fibers for our clothes and, through technology, be part of the fields of medicine or the space race. It is vital to consume and produce wood in a more environmentally friendly way for the planet and its inhabitants. Let’s protect this easily renewable resource with a sustainable management of forests.



Forests are home to about 80% of the world’s terrestrial biodiversity, with more that 60,000 tree species. Around 1.6 billion people depend directly on forests for food, shelter, energy, medicines and income. The world is losing 10 million hectares of forest each year - about the size of Iceland.



In a resolution the UN General Assembly has encouraged countries to undertake local, national and international efforts to organise activities involving forests and trees, such as tree planting campaigns. The organisers are the United Nations Forum on Forests and the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization , in collaboration with Governments, the collaborative partnership on forests and other relevant organisations in the field.



Giving some success stories the UN refers to the Rosewood conservation in Madagascar. For Madagascar farmer Edmond, who goes by one name, it was a breakthrough. In 2019 he perfected a complicated technique to grow a rare species of tree known as Dalbergia normandii. The plants hail from a valuable, and difficult-to-propagate family of trees known as rosewoods, which have been felled near to the point of extinction in many parts of Madagascar. From Guatemala to Madagascar to Thailand to Zambia, rosewoods have been targeted by timber traffickers who seek to profit especially from its growing demand in China and Vietnam, principally for furniture.

In the Peruvian Amazon, a tree that stands more than 20 metres high is giving the forests a new value. It is known as the shiringa. The latex extracted from its interior offers indigenous communities an opportunity to strengthen their ancestral practices, generate income and adapt to climate change.



With a heart linked to the environment America’s native people’s Chief Seattle says humankind has not woven the web of life. We are but one thread within it. Whatever we do to the web, we do to ourselves. All things are bound together. All things connect. This we know: the earth does not belong to people - people belong to the earth. This we know. All things are connected like the blood that unites one’s family. All things are connected.



In Sri Lanka and its forest conservation policy, the less said the better. During the past few years large areas of wilderness land have been sold to foreign and local investors to begin large scale projects. Widespread allegations have been made about large scale bribery and corruption, kickbacks and commissions amounting to hundreds of millions of dollars. In addition, we have the human-elephant conflicts where we have robbed the homelands of the elephants and when they come to other areas in search of food, we call them rogue elephants. Of course, we need to be sympathetic to the innocent rural people who suffer from this and be aware that the villains of the piece are the high level politicians and big company owners.



One of the world’s greatest statesmen Mahathma Gandhi has said what we are doing to the forests of the world is but a mirror reflection of what we are doing to ourselves and to one another. Let us contemplate deeply on this as we mark the UN’s International Day of Forests.

## [00:39] Daily COVID-19 detections drop to 583

[https://www.ft.lk/news/Daily-COVID-19-detections-drop-to-583/56-731523](https://www.ft.lk/news/Daily-COVID-19-detections-drop-to-583/56-731523)

Lowest detections in a day since 10 January

Total patient count rises to 648,993

23,006 persons under medical or home-based care

Childhood obesity unseen side of the pandemic: Prof. Pujitha Wickramasinghe



By Shailendree Wickrama Adittiya

Daily COVID-19 detections dropped to 583 yesterday, the lowest it has been since January.

According to the Epidemiology Unit, 461 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on 10 January and daily detections have since remained above 600.

All patients detected yesterday were from the New Year cluster, the Department of Government Information states.

A gradual decline in daily detections has been observed this week, with 711 persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. This includes 710 persons from the New Year cluster and one Sri Lankan returnee from overseas.

However, daily testing has remained below 10,000 since 26 February. The Health Promotion Bureau states that only 4,689 PCR tests and 2,475 rapid antigen tests were conducted on Thursday.

A total of 648,993 COVID-19 cases have been detected in the country. This includes 543,225 persons from the New Year cluster, 82,785 persons from the Peliyagoda cluster, 9,154 persons from the Prisons cluster and 3,059 persons from the Divulapitiya cluster.

The country’s imported cases include 7,235 Sri Lankan returnees from overseas and 328 foreigners.

The Epidemiology Unit states that 135,081 persons from Colombo, 112,612 persons from Gampaha, 57,459 persons from Kalutara, 43,348 persons from Galle and 30,842 persons from Kurunegala have tested positive for COVID-19.

During the third wave of the pandemic, 102,784 patients from Colombo, 94,078 patients from Gampaha and 50,401 patients from Kalutara were detected. At present, 23,006 persons are under medical or home-based care and 816 persons suspected of having COVID-19 are under observation.

The country’s COVID-19 recoveries rose to 609,680 with 195 persons discharged from treatment centres yesterday.

Meanwhile, health experts yesterday emphasised the importance of adhering to safety guidelines and getting vaccinated given the reopening of schools next week.

“When school activities resume, roads get busy and travel increases. With this, there is a rise in COVID-19 as well as other communicable diseases spreading at the moment, like diarrhoea and diseases of the respiratory tract,” Colombo Medical Faculty Professor and Paediatrician Prof. Pujitha Wickramasinghe said.

He explained that there is an adverse impact on the child when they are unable to go to school for an extended period of time and socialise, as seen during the pandemic. While adding that a survey has not been done on childhood obesity since the pandemic, Prof. Wickramasinghe said that he has noticed a doubling of childhood obesity numbers, which is a serious situation.

“Depending on how long they have been obese for and the transformation that happened to their body during this time, they may develop other diseases in the long term,” Prof. Wickramasinghe said. These conditions include heart disease, diabetes and cirrhosis. “This is the unseen side of the COVID-19 pandemic,” he added.

## [00:39] 26,028 persons vaccinated against COVID-19

[https://www.ft.lk/news/26-028-persons-vaccinated-against-COVID-19/56-731522](https://www.ft.lk/news/26-028-persons-vaccinated-against-COVID-19/56-731522)

Health officials state that booster dose coverage among the target population has exceeded 50%, adding that COVID-19 vaccinations were administered to 26,028 persons on Thursday.

According to Health Promotion Bureau Director Dr. Ranjith Batuwanthudawa, 51% of the target population has received the booster dose. He added that exceeding 50% coverage was significant.

“A drop in COVID-19 detections can be seen at present and we believe that the high percentage of booster coverage has contributed to this,” Dr. Batuwanthudawa went on to say.

According to him, the administration of the first vaccine dose to children over 12 years and the second vaccine dose to children over 16 years is currently taking place.

Colombo University Medical Faculty Senior Professor and Paediatrician Prof. Pujitha Wickramasinghe explained that the technical committee is currently collecting relevant data on vaccination of the under-12 age group. Global data must be analysed before a decision is made, he said.

“On the other hand, we must also see if there is a significant adverse effect on the child if they are not vaccinated and because there is no significant impact, we have been gradually lowering the age limit,” Dr. Wickramasinghe said, explaining that it was important to balance both these aspects to vaccination, especially when administering a newly-developed vaccine to children.

According to the Family Health Bureau, there has been a good response for vaccination of school children within the Colombo Municipal Council (CMC) area. Officer in Charge of the Bureau’s School Health Unit Narahenpita Dr. Jayalath said that vaccination is yet to be carried out in just 20 schools within the CMC area but that this too, will be completed in the next 14 days.

He explained that 50% of the total children have been vaccinated. “However, I believe this number is much higher as our unit is not the only one carrying out vaccination. Lady Ridgeway Hospital for Children administers vaccines daily from 8 a.m. to 12 noon and the number of school children vaccinated there is not included in our numbers,” Dr. Jayalath said.

As of 2 March, 79.3% of the population aged 16 to 19 years had been vaccinated against COVID-19. The Epidemiology Unit adds that 95.8% of the population over 12 years has received the first vaccine dose and 80.4% has received the second dose as well.

Second dose coverage among the population over 20 years was 95.5% as of Wednesday and third dose coverage was 49.46%.

Of the country’s total population, 77.16% has received the first dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, 64.73% has received the second dose and 32.97% has received the third dose.

A total of 16,914,562 persons have received the first dose of a COVID-19 vaccine and 14,190,304 persons have received the second dose as well.

The third dose has been administered to 7,248,832 persons. This includes 20,034 persons vaccinated on Thursday. The Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine is being administered as the booster dose.

On Thursday, 2,986 persons received the first dose of Pfizer and 2,056 persons received the second dose of the vaccine. A total of 2,447,874 persons have received the first dose of Pfizer and 730,063 persons have received the second dose.

The first dose of Sinopharm was administered to 366 persons on Thursday, raising the number of persons to have received the first dose of Sinopharm in total to 12,023,146. The second dose of the vaccine has been administered to 11,098,475 persons. This includes 586 persons vaccinated on Thursday.

The first dose of AstraZeneca has been administered to 1,479,631 persons and the second dose has been administered to 1,418,593 persons.

A total of 804,801 persons have received the first dose of Moderna and 787,361 persons have received the second dose of the vaccine.

The Epidemiology Unit states that 159,110 persons have received the first dose of Sputnik V and 155,812 persons have received the second dose as well.

## [00:39] Full trial of Easter Sunday terror attack suspects from 12 May

[https://www.ft.lk/news/Full-trial-of-Easter-Sunday-terror-attack-suspects-from-12-May/56-731521](https://www.ft.lk/news/Full-trial-of-Easter-Sunday-terror-attack-suspects-from-12-May/56-731521)

The Colombo High Court Trial-at-Bar has fixed for 12 May the case filed against 25 accused including Naufar Moulavi in connection with the Easter Sunday terror attacks that took place in April 2019.

The case against the 25 suspects who are charged with aiding and abetting the terrorist attack on Easter Sunday, will be taken up on 12 May to consider whether all the requirements have been completed to commence the trial.

When the case was taken up before the Bench comprising Colombo High Court Judges Damith Thotawatte, Amal Ranaraja and Navaratne Marasinghe yesterday, the bench directed that all the parties to the case be summoned for pre-trial hearing.

The bench also ordered that the suspects be remanded again and directed the authorities of the prisons where they are being held to take steps to present the accused for the pre-trial hearing which will be held before the commencement of the trial.

Additional Solicitor General Haripriya Jayasundara, appearing for the Attorney General, stated that copies of the indictments in this case have been translated into Tamil and English as requested and that they can be handed over to the defendants.

## [00:38] Lankan family sues Japan over immigration detention death

[https://www.ft.lk/news/Lankan-family-sues-Japan-over-immigration-detention-death/56-731520](https://www.ft.lk/news/Lankan-family-sues-Japan-over-immigration-detention-death/56-731520)

(AFP) TOKYO: The family of a Sri Lankan woman who died in Japanese immigration detention sued the government on yesterday, in a high-profile case that has reignited calls to reform conditions in the system.

Wishma Sandamali, 33 died a year ago while detained for overstaying her visa after seeking police protection, reportedly to escape an abusive relationship.

She had allegedly complained of stomach pain and other symptoms for several weeks and a government probe into her death concluded she received inadequate treatment as her health deteriorated. Her death at a facility in the central city of Nagoya prompted the justice minister last year to apologise and pledge to improve medical provision to detainees.

Sandamali’s family sued the national government yesterday, their lawyer’s office told AFP without giving details. Local media reported the family was seeking 156 million yen ($ 1.3 million) in damages.

Carrying a framed photograph of Sandamali, her younger sister told reporters she was bracing for a long wait for further information. “I’m very sad that we had to take legal action to find out what happened to my elder sister,” she said in the Sinhala language. “Litigation means a process that will take a few more years. That means I have to wait a few more years to find out the reason for my elder sister’s death”. “I am truly sad that it had to come to this.”

Rights campaigners have long criticised conditions at Japanese detention centres, including how guards respond to medical emergencies. Justice Minister Yoshihisa Furukawa on Friday offered condolences to her family and vowed to prevent a recurrence. Sandamali’s death “never should have happened in a facility entrusted with the lives of detainees”, he told reporters.

Last summer, former justice minister Yoko Kamikawa said the probe had not conclusively determined the cause of death, but found the detention centre “lacked a system to assess the health of detainees and provide medical services”.

Japan’s ruling lawmakers also last year dropped a controversial push to make it easier to deport unsuccessful asylum seekers following opposition pressure.

## [00:38] 20 COVID-19 fatalities confirmed

[https://www.ft.lk/news/20-COVID-19-fatalities-confirmed/56-731519](https://www.ft.lk/news/20-COVID-19-fatalities-confirmed/56-731519)

Sri Lanka’s COVID-19 death toll rose to 16,307 following the confirmation of 20 COVID-19 fatalities on Thursday.

According to the Department of Government Information, 19 COVID-19 fatalities confirmed on Thursday were over 60 years and one fatality was between 30 and 59 years. Zero COVID-19 fatalities were confirmed from the under-30 age group on Thursday.

Of the total COVID-19 deaths, 76.24% are from the over-60 age group, 22.45% are from the 30 to 59 age group, and 1.31% are from the below-30 age group

Twelve COVID-19 fatalities confirmed on Thursday were female and eight were male. Of the total COVID-19 deaths, 9,191 are male and 7,116 are female.

## [00:22] Japan to support improving facilities of support centre in Kandy

[https://www.ft.lk/news/Japan-to-support-improving-facilities-of-support-centre-in-Kandy/56-731512](https://www.ft.lk/news/Japan-to-support-improving-facilities-of-support-centre-in-Kandy/56-731512)

The Government of Japan has provided a total sum of $ 63,935 (approx. Rs. 12.4 million) to Child Action Lanka for ‘The project for improving facilities of support centre for vulnerable children, youth and women in Kandy district’. The grant contract was signed on 3 March between Ambassador of Japan Mizukoshi Hideaki, and Child Action Lanka Founding Director Deborah Edirisinghe.

This project will focus on renovating a support centre and expanding the premises to accommodate more vulnerable people to provide a safe space, educational environment and opportunities of getting vocational skills.  Child Action Lanka (CAL) is an organisation that was founded in 2006 to serve street-connected and poverty-marginalised children. Today, it operates across the island reaching the poorest of the poor to provide equal opportunity to education, healthcare, nutrition and child protection. In addition, CAL expands its reach to working with vulnerable women through its own safe home, shelter and women’s community development programs. The CAL support centre in Kandy reached its maximum capacity and often had to rotate programs to ensure everyone had a fair chance to access its services. The new facility will be able to help more children receive free educational assistance, provide youth with opportunities to be trained for employment and provide women with a space to learn and create income generating products that can help uplift their standards of living.

“This year, we are in the midst of celebrating the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our two nations. The Government of Japan will continue to support the effort for child protection and empowerment of women to achieve and sustain peace in Sri Lanka,” stated Ambassador Hideaki. Commenting on the provision of this grant Edirisinghe stated, “This new facility will stand as an icon of hope for those who need it the most. In its provision for extra classrooms, an IT centre and state-of-the-art auditorium will enable CAL to provide empowerment to children, youth and women who would otherwise not be able to access assistance. The facility will serve as a stepping stone to help to see families empowered and children being transformed through education. We together with the Child Action Lanka team, its children and the community express our sincere heartfelt gratitude for the provision of this grant knowing it will help transform the lives of many young people, children and women in the years to come.”

## [00:21] GL meets with President of the Human Rights Council

[https://www.ft.lk/news/GL-meets-with-President-of-the-Human-Rights-Council/56-731511](https://www.ft.lk/news/GL-meets-with-President-of-the-Human-Rights-Council/56-731511)

Foreign Affairs Minister Prof. G.L. Peiris held a meeting with President of the Human Rights Council and Permanent Representative of Argentina Federico Villegas at the Palais des Nations and discussed a range of issues relevant to Sri Lanka on the sidelines of the 49th session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva.

He was accompanied by Minister of Justice Ali Sabry, Additional Solicitor General Nerin Pulle and Secretary to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Admiral Jayanath Colombage.

## [00:20] 114th birth anniversary of N.U. Jayawardena commemorated

[https://www.ft.lk/news/114th-birth-anniversary-of-N-U-Jayawardena-commemorated/56-731510](https://www.ft.lk/news/114th-birth-anniversary-of-N-U-Jayawardena-commemorated/56-731510)

The 114th birth anniversary of Deshamanya N.U. Jayawardena, Senator, first Sri Lankan Governor of the Central Bank, and financier, was commemorated by the staff members of MMBL-Pathfinder and the Pathfinder Foundation. Simple ceremonies to mark this occasion were held at his memorial opposite his former residence at Cambridge Place and at the MMBL-Pathfinder headquarters at Riverpoint. Pathfinder Foundation Chairman and MMBL-Pathfinder Group Director Bernard Goonethilleke garlanded Deshamanya N.U. Jayewardena’s bust.

## [00:19] EU Ambassadors visit  rural development projects in Central Province

[https://www.ft.lk/news/EU-Ambassadors-visit-rural-development-projects-in-Central-Province/56-731509](https://www.ft.lk/news/EU-Ambassadors-visit-rural-development-projects-in-Central-Province/56-731509)

EU and Member State Ambassadors at the opening of the Business Service Centre in Nuwara Eliya





The European Union (EU) and EU Member States Ambassadors resident in Sri Lanka, travelled this week to Nuwara Eliya district in the Central Province for a two-day visit to EU-funded rural development projects.

During their visit, the EU Ambassadors visited and handed over a number of infrastructure facilities in the region, such as a new Business Service Centre in Nuwara Eliya, a renovated tea estate water supply system in Ragala, and a potato seed production unit in Kandapola. All these activities have been developed and funded under the EU program ‘Support to integrated rural development in the most vulnerable districts of Uva and Central Provinces’.

This program, launched in 2017, was the first major European initiative in the region with approximately Rs. 6 billion (EUR 30 million) of grant assistance provided to four districts of Nuwara Eliya, Matale, Badulla and Monaragala located in the Uva and Central Provinces.

Over the past five years, the EU has partnered with both the Government of Sri Lanka, private sector and civil society organisations to improve the situation of small businesses, provide infrastructure for better health, nutrition, hygiene and sanitation practices, and to strengthen socio-economic service delivery by local authorities, community organisations and the private sector in both provinces.

The EU Ambassadors were informed that over 600 micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) have been supported, out of which over 200 are women-owned. The SME development promotion initiatives have made an impressive impact on income and employment generation, market development, technology development and business skills development, ensuring private sector growth and sustainability. The program has helped to reduce the barriers women entrepreneurs encounter in accessing finance and other services. Through these efforts over 1,500 jobs have been created, increasing women’s labour force participation.

During the visit, the group was informed that the EU has assisted in providing safe drinking water to over 35,000 people and renovated water systems and latrines in over 70 schools and 30 villages. This has allowed over 4,000 children access to safe drinking water and improved sanitary facilities in their schools.

EU Ambassador Denis Chaibi said, “Promoting local economic development and social inclusion has been at the heart of our support for years. Since 2014, the EU and its Member States have provided more than EUR 210 million (approximately 48 billion rupees) to improve the quality of life of Sri Lankans, including in the Uva and Central Provinces, which are among the poorest areas in the country. This visit was undertaken in a spirit of Team Europe; my fellow European Ambassadors and I are happy to our long-term assistance bringing positive change to people’s lives.”

As part of the two-day visit, the EU Ambassadors also participated in the opening of the “Thé Kahata” photography exhibition, organised by the Centre for Policy Alternatives, initially supported under the EU-funded project ‘Strengthening the Reconciliation Process in Sri Lanka’ and implemented by GIZ. The exhibition, featuring over 100 photographs of daily life of upcountry Tamil communities, used art as a vehicle to promote dialogue and explore themes such as identity and inequality.

## [00:00] Deputy High Commissioner highlights growing bilateral ties at Indian CEO Forum AGM

[https://www.ft.lk/business/Deputy-High-Commissioner-highlights-growing-bilateral-ties-at-Indian-CEO-Forum-AGM/34-731497](https://www.ft.lk/business/Deputy-High-Commissioner-highlights-growing-bilateral-ties-at-Indian-CEO-Forum-AGM/34-731497)

India’s Deputy High Commissioner Vinod K. Jacob recently addressed the Indian CEO Forum in Colombo and dwelt upon strong friendship between India and Sri Lanka, particularly cooperation under the five pillars of economic, financial, development partnership, capacity building and people-to-people ties. India was Sri Lanka’s second largest trading partner in 2020.

This has grown further in 2021 to reach $ 5.23 billion. India is also one of the biggest investors in Sri Lanka with total FDI of over $ 1.7 billion in the past 15 years.

“India and Sri Lanka have sought to develop the relationship further by harnessing complementary strengths and enhancing mutual understanding on economic matters,” he added.

Deputy High Commissioner recalled the currency swap of $ 400 million, postponement of $ 515 million owed by Central Bank of Sri Lanka to the Reserve Bank of India under the Asian Clearing Union and a line of credit for $ 500 million for the purposes of fuel imports from India. In addition, a line of credit for $ 1 billion for import of food, medicines and essential items by Sri Lanka from India is also under discussion.

Deputy High Commissioner also highlighted the development partnership and capacity building program with Sri Lanka besides stressing people-to-people ties as one of the most important factors that enable the bilateral relationship. India has for many years been the largest source market for tourism in Sri Lanka.

“In the year 2021, 1.94 lakh tourists arrived in Sri Lanka out of which 56,268 were from India which translates into about 29% of total arrivals,” he said.

Deputy High Commissioner also mentioned the complementary nature of cooperation between India and Sri Lanka in the health sector and noted the delivery of COVISHIELD under “Vaccine Maitri”, supply of medical oxygen, 26 tonnes of medical supplies and donation of 100,000 Rapid Antigen Test kits. In defence and security, he underlined the role played by the Indian Navy and India Coast Guard during the MT New Diamond and MV Express Pearl disasters in 2020 and 2021 respectively which is a testament to India’s Neighbourhood First policy.

Prior to Deputy High Commissioner’s address, the Indian CEO Forum held a discussion on India’s budget for the year 2022-23 where the representatives from High Commission of India also participated.

## [00:00] HNB Assurance and HNB General Insurance Launches the 10th Edition of Liya Harasara

[https://www.ft.lk/business/HNB-Assurance-andHNB-General-Insurance-Launches-the-10th-Edition-of-Liya-Harasara/34-731494](https://www.ft.lk/business/HNB-Assurance-andHNB-General-Insurance-Launches-the-10th-Edition-of-Liya-Harasara/34-731494)

HNB Assurance PLC (HNBA) together with its fully owned subsidiary, HNB General Insurance Limited (HNBGI) unveiled the 10th edition of Liya Harasara recently. Liya Harasara is an exclusive offering from HNBA and HNBGI with a number of special benefits to all women in celebration of International Women’s Day.

Speaking on this year’s Liya Harasara edition, HNBA Chief Executive Officer Lasitha Wimalaratne stated: “Women have become the backbone of today’s economy and they play an important role in guiding the society and uplifting livelihoods. It is no secret that women play multiple roles including the role of a family’s breadwinner and Liya Harasara is our way of paying tribute to the gracious, unbreakable spirit of womanhood. As a brand which believes in promoting diversity and equality, HNBA has taken various initiatives to support our women. Being recognized among the Top 10 Women Friendly Workplaces in Sri Lanka at Women Friendly Workplaces Awards 2021 is a testament to HNBA’s efforts to create an empowering work culture as well as to support women break the glass ceiling and achieve their career aspirations and goals”.

Speaking on the benefits Wimalaratne added: “The 10th edition of Liya Harasara offers a range of special benefits including an Additional Life Cover of up to Rs. 1 million for regular Premium Life Insurance Policies and a Daily Hospitalisation Benefit for childbirth and pregnancy subject to maximum of 3 days per year. Moreover, HNBA partnered with Vision Care, Eric Rajapakse Opticians, Durdans Hospital, Swarnamahal and Singer to offer exclusive discount schemes to our policyholders during the month of March and April”.

HNBGI Chief Executive Officer Sithumina Jayasundara shared his views on the 10th edition of Liya Harasara stating, “Every year HNBGI join hands with HNBA to commemorate International Women’s Day and offer a number of special benefits to all women across the country. This year HNBGI will be offering a free Personal Accident Cover of up to Rs. 500,000 for every Motor Insurance Policy obtained from HNBGI. We believe that these benefits would add greater value to the livelihoods of women and would boost their confidence to take on the challenges of tomorrow”.

HNB Assurance PLC (HNBA) is one of the fastest growing Insurance Companies in Sri Lanka with a network of 63 branches. HNBA is a Life Insurance company with a rating of ‘A+’ (lka) by Fitch Ratings Lanka for ‘National Insurer Financial Strength Rating’. Following the introduction of the segregation rules by the Insurance Regulator, HNB General Insurance Limited (HNBGI) was created and commenced its operations in January 2015; HNBGI continues to specialize in motor, non-motor and Takaful insurance solutions and is a fully owned subsidiary of HNB Assurance PLC.

HNB General Insurance has been assigned a ‘National Insurer Financial Strength Rating’ of ‘A+’ (lka) by Fitch Ratings Lanka Limited. HNBA is rated within the Top 100 brands and Top 100 companies in Sri Lanka by LMD and HNB Assurance has won international awards for Brand Excellence, Digital Marketing and HR Excellence including the Great Place To Work Certification and won many awards for its Annual Reports at award ceremonies organized by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka.

## [00:00] Sierra Construction wins Seethawaka EPZ wastewater treatment plant project

[https://www.ft.lk/business/Sierra-Construction-wins-Seethawaka-EPZ-wastewater-treatment-plant-project/34-731495](https://www.ft.lk/business/Sierra-Construction-wins-Seethawaka-EPZ-wastewater-treatment-plant-project/34-731495)

Zone’s wastewater treatment plant to be augmented to process 15,000 M3 of wastewater per day



The Board of Investment of Sri Lanka (BOI) has awarded a contract to Sierra Construction Ltd., to augment the common wastewater treatment plant at the Seethawaka Export Processing Zone (SEPZ) that services 139 enterprises.

Accordingly, Sierra Construction will expand the capacity of the zone’s wastewater treatment plant to process 15,000 cubic meters of wastewater per day. The project is expected to be completed by September 2023.

The scope encompasses civil works, supply and installation of mechanical and electrical equipment, testing, commissioning and maintenance. The Company will change the existing aeration system and introduce a fine-bubble wastewater diffuser, whose ultraviolet (UV) radiation system has a strong anti-bacterial effect that destroys microorganisms such as viruses, bacteria, yeasts and fungi. Impeccable purification of wastewater discharged by the SEPZ is of paramount importance as there are water treatment plants downstream which supply water to the Colombo city limits, the Company said.

Commenting on the project Sierra Construction Ltd., Mechanical and Electrical Division Executive Director L. K. D. Cabral said: “We are honoured to be selected as a Sri Lankan company to be awarded a project of this magnitude. The confidence the BOI has placed on us is a testament to the exemplary nature of the projects the company has completed over the past four decades. We understand the immense responsibility placed upon us and our goal is to enhance the existing wastewater management system in a fool-proof manner so to ensure that the treated and refined wastewater that reaches the Kelani River is completely safe.”

The Seethawaka Export Processing Zone currently services 27 enterprises in commercial operations that are involved in the manufacture of apparel and accessories, glove products and rubber products, fabrics, chemicals and minerals, printing and food processing. There are also 112 enterprises outside the zone area that are serviced by the Seethawaka Zone. The enterprises include both Sri Lankan and foreign operations. The only export processing zone located in the Colombo District, the SEPZ is vital to the export industry in Sri Lanka as it generates invaluable foreign exchange for the country. The BOI awarded the contract to expand the existing wastewater and sewerage treatment plant in January this year on an Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) basis, after assessing the need for greater capacity and improved processes. The augmentation project will comply with all the environmental and health guidelines of the country.

## [00:00] Daraz partners with Embark to become exclusive retail platform

[https://www.ft.lk/business/Daraz-partners-with-Embark-to-become-exclusive-retail-platform/34-731493](https://www.ft.lk/business/Daraz-partners-with-Embark-to-become-exclusive-retail-platform/34-731493)

Embark Founder Otara Gunewardene and Daraz Sri Lanka Managing Director Rakhil Fernando exchanging the partnership agreement



Daraz Sri Lanka and Embark entered into a franchise partnership, giving customers an exclusive platform to shop for Embark products. The signing of the partnership took place on 2 March between Daraz Sri Lanka Managing Director Rakhil Fernando and Embark Founder Otara Gunewardene.

Through this new partnership, both Daraz and Embark customers gain access to a range of Embark merchandise including t-shirts, tops, pet toys, collars, leash, bowls, and beds as well as wristbands and other accessories such as slippers, caps, cloth shopping bags, and much more especially designed for passionate pet owners.

Daraz Sri Lanka Managing Director Rakhil Fernando, commenting on the partnership, said: “We are thrilled about this partnership. Daraz and Embark will be a very powerful, meaningful combination, as both these entities find solidarity in their ambitions to do more to the community. It is equally important to us that we keep growing our pool of well-established local brands on the platform, while also setting the pace for bigger fashion brands to partner with Daraz to reach new markets, more economically, through our online retailing space.” In addition to accessing the full range of Embark merchandise with the option of island-wide delivery via Daraz’s trusted DEX partners, customers can also avail themselves of a host of credit card discounts, seasonal promotions, and special offers for purchases made exclusively through Daraz.lk.

Commenting on the partnership, Embark Founder Otara Gunewardene shared: “Embark is a conscious brand which promotes a lifestyle of compassion and kindness that caters to an audience with similar sentiments. With every purchase, a customer directly supports the cause of this organisation. With our partnership with Daraz, more citizens can now contribute to make the lives of innocent street dogs better, fashionably.”

Founded by Gunewardene in 2007 as an animal welfare and rescue initiative, Embark is dedicated to improving the wellbeing of street dogs and other animals. Importantly, by making available Embark merchandise to a wider audience through this partnership, more people are encouraged to support the rescue efforts of Embark in the long term.

## [00:00] HNB renews partnership with UMG Lanka for exclusive offers on MATADOR Machinery

[https://www.ft.lk/business/HNB-renews-partnership-with-UMG-Lanka-for-exclusive-offers-on-MATADOR-Machinery/34-731492](https://www.ft.lk/business/HNB-renews-partnership-with-UMG-Lanka-for-exclusive-offers-on-MATADOR-Machinery/34-731492)

HNB DGM-Retail and SME Banking Sanjaya Wijemanna (fourth from right) exchanging the MoU with the UMG Managing Director/COO Asiri Walisundara (third from right) in the presence of (from left) HNB Assistant Manager-Business Development Mahesh Ratnayake, HNB Assistant Manager-Leasing Roshan De Silva, HNB Head of Leasing Niluka T Amarasinghe, HNB Head Of Micro Finance Vinodh Fernando, HNB Head of PFS Kanchana Karunagama, UMG Head of Sales Deepal Ilangasingha and UMG Brand and Marketing Manager Methma Karalliyadda





Sri Lanka’s premier private sector bank HNB PLC partnered with leading agricultural and construction equipment provider United Mercury Group (UMG) Lanka once again to offer exclusive discounts and attractive benefits on MATADOR construction and harvesting machinery.

The exclusive partnership offers customers access to an extensive range of agricultural and construction equipment by UMG. A special ceremony was held at HNB Towers to sign the MoU with the attendance of UMG Head of Personal Financial services Kanchana Karunagama and Managing Director /COO Asiri Walisundara.

“Given the hardships we’re facing today as a nation, HNB is grateful to UMG for their timely execution of this initiative. We believe that our joint efforts help take the agricultural and construction sector forward in this time of need, and we will continue to support said sectors for long term growth,” states Kanchana Karunagama.

The partnership offers HNB customers access to low interest rates and exciting discounts for vehicle insurance premiums from HNB General Insurance, in addition to a free life insurance cover Rs. 4.5 million for accidental deaths. HNB Assurance will also provide a Rs. 600,000 natural death insurance cover. Customers will also have access to a range of exclusive discounts through the prestige Prime credit card, for which the bank will waive off the first-year annual fee.

“As pioneers in offering heavy machinery to Sri Lanka we understand the necessity of supporting those in the agricultural and construction sectors to take the economy forward. Our partnership with HNB facilitates many to purchase our machinery at attractive and discounted rates, which we believe will help the sectors’ growth in the long run,” shares Asiri Walisundara.

UMG Lanka offers exceptional warranty schemes for Matador’s harvesting and construction machinery, with free inspection of the machinery provided every 250 hours during a customer’s warranty period. Customers who purchase Matador’s combine harvester machinery will receive a spare parts and tool box worth Rs. 50,000 free of charge, and those who purchase more than one are eligible to receive a 15% discount on spare parts.

Customers who purchase Matador’s construction machinery will also be offered an extended warranty of two years or 5000 meter hours, and will be eligible for a 10% discount on spare part purchases after one year of their free service package.

Further information regarding the offer can be obtained from HNB and UMG showrooms island-wide.

## [00:00] Huawei releases IntelligentRAN wireless architecture

[https://www.ft.lk/business/Huawei-releases-IntelligentRAN-wireless-architecture/34-731496](https://www.ft.lk/business/Huawei-releases-IntelligentRAN-wireless-architecture/34-731496)

Huawei’s Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Wireless Solutions Gan Bin





Huawei unveiled IntelligentRAN, its new wireless network architecture, at a recently held pre-MWC briefing and product and solution launch event.

This architecture is designed to help carriers build autonomous networks using service operation intelligence, experience optimisation, and simplified O&M.

Huawei’s Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Wireless Solutions Gan Bin spoke at the launch, explaining how key technologies were incorporated into the architecture to support ADN over wireless networks: “Intelligence improves wireless networks greatly by supporting correlative data analysis and prediction to make decisions more adaptive. This is where IntelligentRAN comes in. It will enable networks to realise zero service waiting, consistent experience, zero network faults, and optimal experience and energy efficiency. Using Mobile Intelligent Engine (MIE), it will better coordinate data, models, and decisions between base stations and networks, paving the way to wireless intelligence.”

He said 5G has caused a huge increase in the number of personal, industry, and home applications available in the wireless market. As these services increase, network performance requirements are similarly diversifying in terms of coverage, capacity, and latency. Interference between cells, a long-standing problem in mobile networks, is also hindering operators’ attempts to provide consistent experience. And of course, as traffic increases, so will energy consumption. To cope with these challenges, operators are increasingly relying on intelligent wireless networks to quickly roll out services while using the best frequency band combination to ensure optimal experiences. They now look to user-centric networks for resource configuration and simplified O&M to operate with optimal experience and energy efficiency.

Huawei’s new IntelligentRAN allows intelligent air interfaces to use key technologies such as smart grids, scheduling dictionaries, and channel graphs. With these tools, they can intelligently configure air interface resources and achieve optimal user experience and capacity. Service prediction with IntelligentRAN also guides non-real-time spectrum and channel selection on the network side and real-time symbol scheduling and transmit power configuration on the base station side. This significantly reduces energy consumption across the entire network.

In addition, IntelligentRAN enables intelligent SLA site planning, where parameters are dynamically configured and models can be adjusted flexibly in response to service changes.

Networks with IntelligentRAN also benefit from intelligent O&M. They can self-learn the features of faults to improve fault detection accurately and root cause analysis. This replaces passive responses with proactive maintenance, bringing us a step closer to zero-fault wireless networks. Intelligent minimum drive tests (MDTs) can also work with Massive MIMO to build an all-round high-precision map for network performance. This provides more accurate guidance for network planning, optimisation, and VIP user assurance.

IntelligentRAN uses collaborative power control to considerably reduce electromagnetic radiation intensity while ensuring optimal multi-band performance. This feature will help meet the power restriction requirements now found in some countries.

Gan explained how important Huawei believes this new architecture will be for sustainable development efforts: “IntelligentRAN enables autonomous networks. It will empower industries, accelerate industry transformation, and promote sustainable development of the mobile industry and a digital world. We hope to work with operators and industry partners to better fulfil this goal.”

MWC22 Barcelona will run until 3 March in Barcelona, Spain. Huawei will showcase its products and solutions at stand 1H50 in Fira Gran Via Hall 1.