# 2022-03-06

*7 news articles*

## [18:37] Apparel exports set 5-year high record in January 2022

[http://island.lk/apparel-exports-set-5-year-high-record-in-january-2022/](http://island.lk/apparel-exports-set-5-year-high-record-in-january-2022/)

Sri Lanka’s apparel exports in January 2022 achieved the highest level for that month in the last five years. This performance demonstrates the industry’s underlying strength as it bounced back from the sustained shocks from the impact of the pandemic over the last two years.

Sri Lanka’s apparel export earnings rose to US$ 487.6 million in January 2022, overtaking the US$ 452 million recorded in January 2019, prior to the pandemic, by 8%. Growth over January 2021 export earnings was 23%.

“Amidst significant turbulence, this strong performance is testimony to the resilience of Sri Lanka’s apparel industry and augurs well for the industry’s progress towards realising its goals for 2025,” said Yohan Lawrence, Secretary General, Joint Apparel Association Forum (JAAF), the apex body of the Sri Lankan apparel industry.

The industry’s 2030 vision is to transform Sri Lanka to a global apparel hub by that year; an intermediate goal is to increase annual export earnings from apparel to US$8 billion by 2025.

“Through close cooperation between all key stakeholders, the apparel industry can further increase its already-strong contribution to the national economy, as a major generator of vital foreign exchange and high-quality employment,” Lawrence added.

The industry’s January 2022 performance also reflects the success of rigorously applied safety measures adopted by the sector, in close cooperation with health authorities, to minimise the spread of the pandemic among employees to zero. Additionally, apace with the national vaccination drive, 65% of employees in Sri Lanka’s apparel sector have now received both doses and the booster, while 95% of employees have received at least both doses. Apparel exporters also proactively adopted additional safety measures, even before the Omicron variant came to Sri Lanka.

“Ensuring the health and safety of the employees of the sector, through continued rigorous adherence to safety and health protocols remains our top priority,” said Saif Jafferjee, Managing Director (MD), Lanka Garments (Pvt) Ltd. “This approach has sustained the industry’s resilience and reduced the negative impact of COVID-19, while also ensuring business continuity, thus protecting thousands of livelihoods and income sources.”

Recent performance also reflects the success of measures like digital product development technology adoption that helped mitigate supply chain disruptions. Larger firms also supported smaller ones, by collaborating with them on meeting the export order rush.

“January’s impressive performance was also made possible by strong demand from buyers and the healthy pipeline of orders for upcoming months, which are grounds for optimism,” Jafferjee added. “The international outlook remains challenging, however, considering growing tensions in Europe.”.

DFCC Juniors’ online workshop for kids hosted to nurture their artistic ability

Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name *

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

## [18:37] Hambantota Port declares 2022, the ‘Year of Construction’

[http://island.lk/hambantota-port-declares-2022-the-year-of-construction/](http://island.lk/hambantota-port-declares-2022-the-year-of-construction/)

The Hambantota International Port (HIP) has declared 2022 as a ‘Year of Construction’, with several ongoing projects reaching different stages of building their respective plants in the Port’s Industrial park. HIP is fully concentrated on getting the projects off the ground so that the first phase of the park would be up and running by the end of this year, HIP sources told the media.

“The Port’s high speed productivity concept ‘HIP Speed’, is playing a key role in accelerating all aspects of the three main projects that are currently under construction.  The luxury Yacht building plant, the Plug and play park-in-park facility and the tyre manufacturing plant that broke ground at a record speed with the port’s support, brings a total value of US $ 373 million in foreign direct investments to the country,” they said.

Johnson Liu, CEO of Hambantota International Port Group (HIPG) and the architect of HIP Speed said, “We have declared 2022 the ‘Year of Construction’ as our focus during these 12 months would be mainly on the construction of phase one of the port’s industrial park and allied sectors. It is not that construction for new projects will not continue in years to come, but we believe special emphasis is needed right now, in structuring the foundations of this multipurpose port.  HIP, unlike any other port in Sri Lanka, includes an industrial park, which we will strongly push in our marketing and brand positioning, to attract further investment to our park and other areas of the Hambantota district.  It is our intention to position not only HIP, but also the South of Sri Lanka, as a place for light, multi-purpose and heavy industry investments. The added advantage for investors would be the Hambantota Port, which we are positioning to be the gateway port to the hinterland.”

According to HIPG, there is an urgent need to speed up construction of these plants, as it would not only make already signed up projects a reality on the ground, but will also help in building momentum for further investment in the industrial park.  The Port Investment Services Division says, this would act as a catalyst for attracting new FDIs into the country.  Apart from the ongoing projects, the port has signed 40 sub-lease agreements both for the Hambantota Maritime Centre and the Industrial Park. HIP Speed, which has in its processes the ability to help investors understand the local terrain and expedite setting up operations, will provide support in obtaining approvals and cutting through red tape. The industrial park works in tandem with other operations in the port, including the establishing of a container yard, that would be vital for industries in terms of raw material imports and the export of finished domestic goods.

The projects that are currently in construction include the US$ 58 million state-of-the-art yacht building facility, by SeaHorse Yachts (Pvt) Ltd., which will complete land levelling this April, and begin construction by mid 2022.  The US$ 15 million plug and play park-in-park facility by Shenzhen Xinji Group, is currently at foundation level.  Once completed, it will attract light industry manufacturers and traders who would set up in Sri Lanka with a view to discovering new markets in South Asia.  The US$ 300 million tire manufacturing plant by Shandong Haohua Tire Co. Ltd, has completed levelling work and will commence construction between the second and third quarters of this year.  The plant, which will be built in 2 phases, has an annual production commitment of 20,000 container units.

The 3 projects are expected to complete construction of their plants within their given project implementation period and HIP Speed is working as a primary factor in ensuring that the deadlines are met.  The port operator together with state organisations, is providing all support necessary to accelerate the manufacturing projects and realise their investments, so that they can contribute to the country’s export economy, at the earliest opportunity.

The Hambantota International Port is promoting its Industrial park to diverse industries from across the globe with a view to creating an international investor community.  Currently investors from Sri Lanka, the UK, Japan, China, Singapore and the Maldives have projects in the pipeline. The port is also paving the way for projects in different sectors such as warehousing & logistics, home appliances, energy and value added services, according to HIP sources.

DFCC Juniors’ online workshop for kids hosted to nurture their artistic ability

Colombo Tea Auction prices remain stable despite conflict between Russia and Ukraine

Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name *

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

## [18:36] Central Bank urges banks and NBFIs to promote savings amid rising inflation

[http://island.lk/central-bank-urges-banks-and-nbfis-to-promote-savings-amid-rising-inflation/](http://island.lk/central-bank-urges-banks-and-nbfis-to-promote-savings-amid-rising-inflation/)

‘Broad money growth mainly due to decline in net foreign assets of the banking system’

‘Once some inflows received, net foreign assets of the banking system could reverse’

The Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) on Friday urged the banks and non-banking financial institutes (NBFIs) to do the needful to attract deposits and promote savings while saying at the same time that consumer prices in the country was high.

Dr. Anil Perera, Director Economic Research while explaining the monetary policy stance of the Central Bank said, “As you are aware inflation is high at the moment. We observe supply-side as one of the key factors for this. As you look at food prices, inflation numbers in Colombo Consumer Price Index (CCPI) is around 25%. Both headline and core inflation are at high levels and that is a kind of serious concern for the Central Bank. We observe and expect inflationary pressures to remain elevated in the near term, but at the same time, the pressures emanating from the build-up of aggregate demand pressures have to be proactively addressed. This was taken into consideration by the Monetary Board when the decision was made on Thursday to further tighten the monetary policy. We need to bring down inflation levels to our desired levels over the medium term while containing inflation expectations.” he said.

He further said,”In the monetary sector, we observe the continuation of domestic credit, particularly driven by credit to the public sector; namely, the government and state owned enterprises (SOEs).

“But we have seen some growth in broad money, mainly due to the decline in net foreign assets of the banking system. Once we receive some inflows, this net foreign assets of the banking system could reverse and at the same time we would expect some moderation in private sector credit flows in order to keep our monetary aggregates under control in order to mute some additional demand pressures coming from the monetary expansion.”

“As we tightened the monetary policy in August last year and in January 2022 , we have seen some pickup in market interest rates ; especially lending rates have adjusted upwards and we have seen government securities rates have adjusted notably. “At the same time, we observe adjustments in deposit rates still remain sluggish and that has been a cause of having low deposit growth in the banking system. This is causing some excessive currency in circulation to remain in the system.”

“So we urge financial institutions; both banks and NBFIs to make required adjustments in their deposit interest rates and promote savings.

Elephant House awarded Gold and Silver at NCE Export Awards 2021

Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name *

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

## [18:31] DFCC Juniors’ online workshop for kids hosted to nurture their artistic ability

[http://island.lk/dfcc-juniors-online-workshop-for-kids-hosted-to-nurture-their-artistic-ability-2/](http://island.lk/dfcc-juniors-online-workshop-for-kids-hosted-to-nurture-their-artistic-ability-2/)

DFCC Bank, the Bank for Everyone, through its exclusive account scheme for minors, ‘DFCC Junior’, hosted the Junior Art Workshop – an online event to celebrate and nurture the artistic ability and talent of children from across the island. The workshop was conducted ‘free-of-charge’ and was open for children from the ages of 7 to 18.

The event was hosted online, on Independence Day, the 4th of February 2022, with the main aim of developing the children’s ability to paint, draw and colour. The workshop focused on artwork related to the central theme of ‘Independence’ aiming to cultivate the key attributes of national pride and unity amongst the many children that attended. It was conducted via the ZOOM video conferencing platform, and was designed to be as fun-filled and educational as possible, with a wide-variety of engaging lessons and sub-activities, curated and conducted by veteran artist, T.K. Liyanage.

During the workshop, the children were exposed to a wide range of thematic programs covering key topics such as basic techniques for sketching, colouring, 3D art and design, shadows and integrating depth within drawings. The special session hosted an audience of over 215 children in total.

Commenting on the workshop and its impact, DFCC Bank’s Senior Vice President – Retail Banking & SME, Aasiri Iddamalgoda stated, “We are delighted to have hosted the DFCC Junior Art Workshop on Independence Day, and to have introduced the children to a plethora of different techniques and art styles, all of which will undoubtedly contribute to expanding their creativity and artistic ability. The workshop was part of our long-term social value creation strategy as the premier in commercial banking, and contributes to our continuous efforts to develop skills and capabilities amongst the children of our nation, with the hope of creating a sustainable future for all – one filled with economic resilience and social equity.”

The DFCC Junior Account, designed to cultivate the habit of saving in kids, provides children with a range of special gifts and benefits. Through this workshop, DFCC Bank hoped to nurture the talents and abilities of the many children that attended and actively participated. This workshop is part of a larger series that will continue in the near future, with the overall goal of developing skills and setting the children on the path to securing a brighter future for all.

Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name *

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

## [18:31] Elephant House awarded Gold and Silver at NCE Export Awards 2021

[http://island.lk/elephant-house-awarded-gold-and-silver-at-nce-export-awards-2021/](http://island.lk/elephant-house-awarded-gold-and-silver-at-nce-export-awards-2021/)

Elephant House, Sri Lanka’s iconic and most respected household consumer foods brand, has been awarded Gold and Silver awards at the 29th annual NCE Export Awards 2021.

As a brand established in 1866, Elephant House is supported by a strong and vibrant heritage that has propelled it to reach its pinnacle as one of the most trusted brands in the country, winning the hearts of consumers across many generations.

Having securely established itself as one of the most recognised brands in the local and international arena, Elephant House has overcome challenges and hardships, confidently navigating through the business environment to achieve success and recognition. Winning Gold in the “Confectionary and Beverage Products ” and Silver in the “Processed Food Products ” categories have displayed the strong dedication and continued commitment Elephant House has towards their loyal consumers in international markets. These awards will undoubtedly add value to the long outstanding history of Elephant House’s achievements on multiple occasions in numerous categories.

Commenting on the new achievements, Sudantha Victoria, Head of International Marketing stated, “We are humbled and encouraged to be recognised and awarded for our contributions. At Elephant House, we are passionate and committed to venture into new territories and international markets. At the same time, our existing global brand presence in countries such as the Maldives, UK, Australia, Japan, France, Italy, UAE, India, and Seychelles were further strengthened and solidified during the last year.”

“As an organisation, we are keen to continue contributing to the export revenue of Sri Lanka, which is critically important for the nation’s growth and sustenance. Our product attributes and quality will be focused upon to ensure they meet international standards and expectations.”

The Gold award for “Confectionary and Beverage Products” in the medium category has proven and established the popularity and demand Elephant House has gained in the market. Having won a Gold award in the same product category in 2020, the current achievement of Elephant House reiterates the excellence that the brand has showcased and maintained consistently. This is the fourth consecutive year that Elephant House has been recognised and awarded for this category.

Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name *

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

## [18:26] Providore redefines online shopping with freshness, quality and on-time delivery

[http://island.lk/providore-redefines-online-shopping-with-freshness-quality-and-on-time-delivery/](http://island.lk/providore-redefines-online-shopping-with-freshness-quality-and-on-time-delivery/)

Providore, the online grocery store co-founded by Sri Lankan cricketing legends Kumar Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardene, is redefining online shopping in Sri Lanka by bringing freshness, quality and on-time delivery to every customer’s doorstep.

All Providore produce is of the freshest quality as the fruits and vegetables are delivered to their modern processing centre daily. Here, each item is carefully quality checked, cleaned, packed and stored in a specialized optimum temperature-controlled storage, ready to be delivered directly to the customer as and when required by them.

When it comes to deliveries, the Providore Customer Service Associates (CSAs) have been specially trained to use the given mapping software to accurately find the location of the customer instead of calling numerous times. Additionally, while the customers are given the freedom to schedule their deliveries, the CSA ensures that the package is delivered exactly during the allocated time slot chosen by the customer. This provides customers greater freedom and convenience as they are able to plan their deliveries based on their work schedule and availability at the given delivery location. This is very convenient for individuals working from home and especially for busy mothers who have to manage several things on the home front. Using Providore, they are able to easily order the items they require and get them delivered when they want so that they can plan their cooking for the day easily, saving them time and reducing their stress. Furthermore, considering the customers’ need for immediate fulfillment of orders Providore is now available on UBER and PickMe as well.

Sharing her views, Menaka Galgamuwa – CEO of Providore stated, “Providore is your all-inclusive shopping experience where everything you want is at your fingertips. Our ethos is freshness and quality and we have taken all necessary steps to ensure that only the freshest fruits and vegetable are received by us, stored at optimum conditions, dispatched carefully and delivered on time to our customers. When it comes to customers who are working from home, especially busy mothers running their households, they will find our deliveries very convenient as they can select the time slot for the package to be delivered so that they can plan their cooking and meals. Also, the fact that the CSAs won’t be calling multiple times to ask for directions and will simply find his way to your doorstep using the maps tool given to them is another great benefit for the customer.”

Providore has gone to great lengths to play an active role in helping reduce the impact of plastic in the environment by partnering with the largest HDPE plastics recycler in the country and one of the foremost manufacturers for sustainable packaging based on polyethylene. By collecting plastic packaging from previous deliveries and using only recycled bags as part of its sustainability roadmap the company is exploring options for more sustainable packaging.

Providore was introduced as a customer-focused start-up venture to deliver unparalleled quality and service for online grocery shoppers in Sri Lanka. Customers are presented with over 2,000 items to choose from and these include everything from daily essentials and groceries to personal care, household equipment, bakery products, health and wellness products, pet food and accessories, along with premium quality products including cheeses, meats and artisanal ice creams and desserts. Providore ensures food safety and hygiene on all products and guarantees 100% quality, service and on-time delivery. Customers can place orders through the Providore website, the Providore.shop App which available on Apple and Google Play Store for daily delivery from 8am to 8pm and now through UBER and PickMe as well for smaller orders and immediate fulfilment.

Elephant House awarded Gold and Silver at NCE Export Awards 2021

Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name *

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

## [18:22] HUTCH completes implementation of advanced Oracle Cloud ERP system

[http://island.lk/hutch-completes-implementation-of-advanced-oracle-cloud-erp-system/](http://island.lk/hutch-completes-implementation-of-advanced-oracle-cloud-erp-system/)

HUTCH accomplished yet another major milestone in its rapid transformation journey, successfully implementing the latest Oracle Fusion Cloud Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system in the middle of the COVID pandemic.

Most legacy ERP systems including Oracle are fully deployed on-premises but now technology is moving toward the Cloud and Hutch decided to leap forward and implement a future-proof Oracle Cloud ERP.

The project was facilitated by Hutch Sri Lanka’s parent, CK Hutchison group through its global innovations arm CKH-IOD, and spearheaded by LOLC Technologies Limited partnered with EVOSYS Global, an International Platinum Partner for Oracle. Hutch also partnered with PWC-Sri Lanka in the process to acquire expert consultancy services on this program

Lalith Fernando, Chief Financial Officer of Hutch commented, “The implementation of the Oracle Fusion Cloud ERP system will allow us to transform the business to help achieve our goals while adhering to global best practices. The Oracle ERP system is a complete, modern, cloud ERP suite that offers us advanced capabilities, such as AI to automate the manual processes, analytics to react to market shifts in real-time, and automatic updates to stay current and gain a competitive advantage.

The successful on-time implementation of this ERP system was all the more impressive as it has been executed almost in its entirety during the COVID pandemic which did not allow full on-premise project execution by vendors and project consultants”.

The Oracle Fusion modules comprise; Oracle Fusion Supply Chain, Oracle Fusion Finance, and Oracle Integration Cloud (OIC). Everything together offers a unified experience allowing best practices, modernized key operations, and automated Finance & Supply Chain business functions integrating core operations and business support systems (OSS/BSS) in a dynamic Telco environment to provide improved decision making and operational efficiencies.

This ERP project is the latest part of Hutch’s merger with Etisalat Lanka that was initiated in 2019 and has led to the modernisation of the entire operation from the deployment of an advanced 4G network and the complete digitalisation of its back-office operations. This will enable Hutch to continue to offer the best mobile broadband experience to its customers at the most affordable rates.

Elephant House awarded Gold and Silver at NCE Export Awards 2021

Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name *

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.